OH, I&apos;M OK NOW.
THANK YOU.
OK.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
I&apos;D LIKE TO CALL THIS MEETING
TO ORDER IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE
RISE FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
COULD I PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER HERE COUNCIL MEMBER DID
HEAR FROM CONSIDER GRISWOLD&apos;S
HERE HOUSE MURSAU HERE ON OUR
GROUND HERE COUNCILMAN DENHA
ABSENT MAYOR TAYLOR ABSENT
COUNCILOR IRE ABSENT FELSBERG
NELSON HERE, COUNCILMAN BRIGGS
ABSENT HOUSE MEMBER I&apos;M LOUI
HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
CAN I PLEASE HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN CHRIS BOWEN SECONDED
BY COUNCILMAN BIRDSONG ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA, ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR?
&gt;&gt; OK, AGENDA IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
THIS EVENING?
&gt;&gt; NO, WE DON&apos;T.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
AND WE HAVE ONE INTRODUCTION
WHICH IS OUR MONTHLY UPDATE
FROM OUR INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND
IS DR. JACKSON READY TO GO
COUNTERPROGRAM?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;VE MOVED HER OVER TO
PRESENT ON ZOOME WONDERFUL.
ALL RIGHT.
DR. JACKSON, WE ARE ALL YOURS.
GOOD EVENING, COUNCILMAN
BERTRAND AND CITY COUNCIL.
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO DON&apos;T KNOW
ME, MY NAME IS LISA JACKSON AND
I&apos;M THE CHAIR OF AN INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;VE SPOKEN TO THIS BODY IN
THE PAST ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF NENE&apos;S AND ABOUT THE
IMPORTANCE OF SAYING NOW ABOUT
THE IMPORTANCE OF REMEMBERING
THEM, ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF KNOWING THEM WHILE THE
PEOPLE TO WHOM THEY BELONG ARE
STILL ALIVE WHEN WE FIRST
STARTED HAVING THESE
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT NAMES IN
ANN ARBOR, THEY WERE IN THE
CONTEXT OF PEOPLE WE&apos;VE HAD TO
MOURN TOO EARLY.
PEOPLE LIKE ORUS WHO WAS KILLED
HERE IN ANN ARBOR IN 2014 BUT
ALSO GEORGE LLOYD, ERIC GARNER,
BRIANNA TAYLOR.
&gt;&gt; WE SEE THESE NAMES TO REMIND
OURSELVES THAT IT&apos;S FAR TOO
EARLY TO BE SATISFIED WITH THE
PROGRESS THAT OUR COUNTRY HAS
MADE.
THE NEXT NAMES WE SPOKE ABOUT
WERE THOSE BELONGING TO POLICE
OFFICERS AND UNTIL ABOUT A YEAR
AGO NO ONE OUTSIDE OF A PD, NOT
EVEN OUR COMMISSION WAS ABLE TO
IDENTIFY WHICH OFFICERS WERE
HAVING COMPLAINTS FILED AGAINST
THEM THAT MEANT THAT IF WE
RECEIVED 50 COMPLAINTS ABOUT
POLICE CONDUCT WE HAD NO WAY
OF KNOWING WHETHER THAT WAS 50
INDIVIDUAL POLICE OFFICERS THAT
HAD ONE COMPLAINT FILED AGAINST
THEM OR WHETHER THAT WAS ONE
OFFICER WHO HAD 50 COMPLAINTS
FILED AGAINST THEM.
FORTUNATELY THOUGH, OUR
COMMISSION IS
NOW ABLE TO
IDENTIFY WHICH OFFICERS ARE
HAVING COMPLAINTS FILED AGAINST
THEM AND WE HAVE A MUCH BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF WHEN WE&apos;RE
DEALING WITH PROBLEMATIC
OFFICERS OR PROBLEMATIC APD
POLICIES.
WE REMEMBER THESE NAMES BECAUSE
REAL ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIRES
TRANSPARENCY.
&gt;&gt; MORE RECENTLY I&apos;VE SPOKEN
HERE ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF KNOWING THE NAMES
OF COMPLAINANTS WHO FILE
COMPLAINTS DIRECTLY WITH THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND WHEN APD
WOULD SHARE THOSE COMPLAINTS
WITH OUR COMMISSION THEY CHOSE
TO OBSCURE THOSE NAMES SUCH
THAT WE COULD NOT REACH OUT TO
THE COMPLAINANT TO FOLLOW UP
WITH THEM.
THIS HAS BEEN A PROBLEM BECAUSE
IT&apos;S MEANT THAT COMPLAINTS HAD
NO WAY OF KNOWING WHETHER
ANYONE OTHER THAN APD REVIEWED
THEIR COMPLAINT NOR HAVE THEY
BEEN ABLE TO DISCLOSE ANY
INFORMATION TO US THAT THEY
DIDN&apos;T FEEL COMFORTABLE
DISCLOSING TO THE POLICE
BECAUSE PEOPLE HAD INTERACTIONS
WITH THE POLICE ARE MORE LIKELY
TO HAVE ANOTHER IN THE FUTURE.
IT&apos;S CRUCIAL WE HAVE THESE
CONVERSATIONS BEFORE A
SITUATION ESCALATES TONIGHT
WE&apos;D LIKE TO THANK THE
ADMINISTRATOR DANI FOR HIS
CONFIRMATION THAT WE WILL BEGIN
RECEIVING THOSE NAMES IN THE
NEXT FEW WEEKS AS WELL AS FOR
HIS BROADER WORK TOWARDS
TRANSPARENCY IN THE CITY.
WE&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO THANK YOU
THEM CIVIL RIGHTS LITIGATION
INITIATIVE FOR THEIR RESEARCH
AND ADVOCACY EFFORTS WITHOUT
WHICH THIS WENT UP AND POSSIBLE
WE CAN NOW KNOW THOSE NAMES
BEFORE THEY BECOME ANOTHER IN A
LONG LINE OF TRAGEDIES WE FAIL
TO PREVENT I&apos;D LIKE TO END MY
REMARKS DEALING WITH SOMETHING
NOT DIRECTLY RELATED TO POLICE
OVERSIGHT BUT THAT I WOULD ASK
EACH OF YOU ON COUNCIL AND
THOSE OF YOU LISTENING IN THE
COMMUNITY TO REFLECT ON WE&apos;RE
ALL HERE TONIGHT BECAUSE WE
BELIEVE WE CAN CONTRIBUTE TO
SOMETHING GREATER THAN
OURSELVES BY MAKING OUR OWN
VOICES HEARD AND BY AMPLIFYING
AMPLIFYING THE VOICES OF THOSE
IN OUR COMMUNITIES.
THIS DEMOCRATIC IMPULSE IS
OF COURSE NOT WITHOUT COST WHEN
DISAGREEMENTS ARISE CAN FEEL
LIKE WHAT&apos;S COME INTO
CONTENTION IS NOT MERELY OUR
IDEAS BUT ALSO THE LEGITIMACY
OF OURSELVES AND THOSE WE
REPRESENT THAT THE DISCOURSE
SURROUNDING OUR WORK SOMETIMES
GIVES WAY TO WORDS MEANT TO
BASE OUR OPPONENTS RATHER THAN
PROVE THE MERIT OF OUR OWN
IDEAS.
NO SURPRISE BUT THE RECENT LEAK
OF THE SUPREME COURT DECISION
THAT WILL HAVE IMPLICATIONS ON
THE REPRODUCTIVE FREEDOM
OF WOMEN ACROSS OUR COUNTRY
SHOULD SERVE AS A STARK
REMINDER THAT THE FREEDOMS WE
ENJOY IN THIS COMMUNITY CANNOT
BE TAKEN FOR GRANTED WHEN WE
FAIL TO TAKE DECISIVE ACTION TO
ENSURE A SAFER, MORE
SUSTAINABLE AND MORE EQUITABLE
FUTURE FOR THE GENERATIONS THAT
FOLLOW WE CONTRIBUTE TO A PATH
THAT CAN BE IRREVOCABLY CHANGED
BY THE WHIMS OF POLITICAL
OPPORTUNISTS WHEN WE REFLECT
TOMORROW NEXT WEEK, NEXT YEAR
AND AGAIN TEN YEARS FROM NOW, I
HOPE THAT WE CAN ALL SAY WE
WEREN&apos;T TOO DISTRACTED BY
INTERPERSONAL DRAMA TO
UNDERTAKE THE WORK THAT TRULY
MATTERED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, DR. JACKSON.
&gt;&gt; OK, WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK ON A MATTER
THAT&apos;S ON OUR AGENDA THIS
EVENING.
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK AND THEY&apos;RE NOT
PERMITTED TO GRANT THEIR TIME
TO AN ALTERNATIVE SPEAKER.
IF YOU NEED ANY COMBINATIONS,
WE ARE PLEASED TO PROVIDE THEM
TO YOU AND IF YOU ARE CALLING
IN A REMINDER TO THESE PRESS
STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND
AND STAFF SIX TO MEET YOURSELF
OUR FIRST SPEAKER IS ELIZABETH
HUNTER IS IS ELIZABETH
UNTRAVELED
?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, LISA JACKSON FOR
BEING THE BEST POSSIBLE POLICE
OVERSIGHT LEADER WE COULD HAVE
THE IMPORTANCE OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT TRANSPARENCY CANNOT
BE OVERSTATE.
THE TRUE TRUE DEMOCRACY CANNOT
EXIST WITHOUT GOVERNMENT
TRANSPARENCY.
I FULLY SUPPORT TEACHER BARTONS
EFFORTS TO HAVE CITY POLICE
POLICIES PUT ONLINE AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE AND KUDOS TO THE
MICHIGAN STATE POLICE FOR
PUTTING THEIR POLICIES ON THEIR
WEBSITE.
ALMOST ALL OF THEM ON THE TOPIC
OF TRANSPARENCY.
IT&apos;S UNFORTUNATE THAT
INFORMATION WHICH IS IN THE
RIGHT OF THE PUBLIC TO KNOW
WHICH IS WHATEVER MUST BE FIRED
AND EVEN THEN IT CAN ARRIVE
HEAVILY REDACTED BY THOSE IN
POWER WARD ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
LISA DISH SORT OF GAVE IT AWAY
WHEN SHE STATED WE HAVE TO BE
TRICKY.
HOW SAD THAT THAT MENTALITY
EVEN EXISTS WHERE OFFICIALS
NEED TO BE TRICKY TO KEEP
SECRETS FROM THE PUBLIC.
AND JUST ONE OTHER THING IN THE
LIGHT OF YET ANOTHER WHITE
OFFICER KILLING A BLACK CITIZEN
IN GRAND RAPIDS, ANN ARBOR
NEVER FORGET ONE OF OUR WHITE
OFFICERS KILLED A BLACK PERSON
HERE AFTER THAT COMPLETELY
UNNECESSARY MURDER.
THIS OFFICER WAS ELEVATED TO A
HIGHER POSITION IN THE APD AND
GIVEN A PAY RAISE UNDER MAYOR
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR.
JUSTICE HAS NOT BEEN SERVED.
MAYOR TAYLOR, I&apos;M ASKING YOU TO
DO WHAT CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVISTS
HAVE DEMANDED TIME AND TIME
AGAIN APOLOGIZE TO THE FAMILY
OF AUTHORIZER, PAY HER FUNERAL
COSTS AND PAY FINANCIAL
RESTITUTION TO HER THREE
MOTHERLESS CHILDREN WHEN
ACTIVISTS CONFRONTED YOU, MAYOR
TAYLOR HERE IN THIS ROOM YOUR
RESPONSE WAS TO REMODEL AT
TAXPAYER EXPENSE AND PLACE A
PHYSICAL BARRIER AND MORE
DISTANCE BETWEEN YOU AND THE
PUBLIC.
THIS THIS IS ACTUALLY A FITTING
ANALOGY FOR THE CITY GOVERNMENT
WHICH YOU HAVE CREATED .
AS FOR THE ACTIVISTS, THINK
OF THE MANY OTHER WAYS YOU
COULD HAVE RESPONDED WELCOMING
THE ACTIVISTS TO THE MEETING,
LISTENING TO THEM SETTING AN
ALTERNATE MEETING TIME WITH
THEM, REACHING OUT TO THEM
AFTER THE MEETING AND SO ON.
BUT YOU TURNED YOUR BACK ON
THEM AND THEN YOU DISAPPEARED.
THE KILLING OF OUR ROSTER HAS
PASSED BUT THE PAIN IS THE
SAME.
THE PAIN IS THE SAME FOR HER
FAMILY, FRIENDS AND THE GREATER
ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY.
IT&apos;S NOT TOO LATE TO MAKE MUCH
NEEDED AMENDS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRIAN
CHAMBERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
CITY COUNCIL HAS DONE MUCH TO
FOSTER MORE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
IN THE CITY.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
SHORTLY THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS THESE WILL BE
PREDOMINANTLY RENTALS EXPOSED
TO MARKET RATES.
AS WE KNOW RENTS WILL CONTINUE
TO INCREASE AND THEREFORE
HOMEOWNERSHIP ITSELF SHOULD BE
AN ADDITIONAL PRIORITY FOR THE
CITY HOUSING POLICY.
LAST SUMMER IS I CONSIDERED THE
UPCOMING COMPREHENSIVE LANDY&apos;S
UPDATE AND THE LIKELIHOOD
OF MORE PROVISIONS FOR
INCREASED HOUSING.
I REFLECTED ON THE POTENTIAL
FOR FURTHER DISPLACEMENT
OF ANIBA RESIDENTS PRICED OUT
OF THE ENTIRE HOUSING MARKET.
IT IS COMMON KNOWLEDGE THAT
SPIRALING HOUSING COSTS HAVE
NOT ONLY PUSHED MIDDLE INCOME
AND ABROGATES OUT BUT HAVE
FURTHER EXACERBATED HOUSING
COSTS IN THE SURROUNDING AREAS.
FURTHER ECONOMIC SEGREGATION
AFFORDABLE HOUSING LEADERS
REMIND ME THAT THIS HAS BEEN
THE AREA TREND FOR MORE THAN 40
YEARS YET MORE HOUSING OVERALL
IS A CRITICAL NEED.
THE LIMITED SUPPLY IN THE
MARKET IN MAJOR PART DRIVES THE
ESCALATING PRICE OF HOUSING IN
OVER AND ABOVE ZONING STANDARDS
ARE PREDOMINANTLY BASED ON
SINGLE FAMILY EXCLUSIONARY
ZONING OVER 70 PERCENT.
THE PARCELS IN ANN ARBOR ARE
ZONED SINGLE FAMILY WITH ONLY
TWENTY PERCENT ZONE MULTIUNIT
IN SUCH A CONSTRAINED MARKET
PRICES ARE NATURALLY GOING TO
INCREASE.
THIS IS BASIC ECONOMICS.
IN ADDITION GREATER HOUSING
DENSITY SO THAT PEOPLE CAN
REDUCE CAR TRAVEL FOR
EMPLOYMENT AND ESSENTIAL
SERVICES WITH WALKABILITY AND
MASS TRANSIT ALSO ADDRESSES AND
OFFERS TWO ZERO GOALS.
INCREASED HOUSING DENSITY IS
CLEARLY NECESSARY POLICY AGENDA
FOR ANN ARBOR INTEREST RATES
AND TIGHTER LENDING STANDARDS,
HOWEVER, ALSO DRIVE THE COST
OF HOMEOWNERSHIP AS MIDDLE
INCOME HOUSEHOLDS ARE MORE
LIMITED IN THEIR ABILITY TO
SAVE FOR A DOWN PAYMENT AND
COVER CLOSING COSTS.
POTENTIAL TAX INCREASES FOR
ETTA AND HIS CLIMATE MILLAGE,
LET ALONE THE REASON THAT OUR
SCHOOLS AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING
COLLEGES ARE ALL ADDRESSING
VALID NECESSARY PUBLIC
INVESTMENTS WITH INCREASING
HOUSING COSTS AND PROPERTY
TAXES.
HOW IS IT EVEN REALISTIC TO
ADVANCE POLICIES TO ADDRESS
ECONOMIC SEGREGATION IN THE
AREA?
&gt;&gt; I ASK MYSELF.
SO I ANALYZED U.S. CENSUS AND
BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS DATA
FOR HANOVER IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA.
YOU HAVE ALL READ MY FINDINGS.
LOWER MIDDLE INCOME HOUSEHOLDS
HAVE A SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED
PORTION OF HOMEOWNERSHIP IN IN
OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS 30
PERCENT LESS LOW INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS HAS ALSO HAD A
MARKED REDUCTION IN THE PERSON
OF INTEREST.
BUT THE KNOWN TREND FOR A
NUMBER IS CLEARLY MEASURED IN
THE DATA FURTHER ANALYSIS
REVEALED AT THE OCCUPATIONAL
GROUPS MOST AFFECTED IN THESE
LOW AND MODERATE INCOME RANGES
ARE OVERREPRESENTED BY WOMEN,
AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND THOSE
OF HISPANIC ETHNICITY.
THIS LED ME TO CONSIDER OPTIONS
FOR MORTGAGES FOR LOW AND
MODERATE INCOME HOUSEHOLDS.
I BELIEVE IT IS APPROPRIATE
POLICY FOR A NEIGHBOR TO
PROVIDE CITY EMPLOYEES AND
RESIDENTS INFORMATION ON THESE
MORTGAGE OPTIONS TO COUNTER THE
40 YEAR TREND.
THIS INFORMATION NEEDS TO BE
PROVIDED ON A REGULAR BASIS IN
ADVANCE OF THROUGHOUT THE
ANNUAL HOUSING MARKET FOR MANY
YEARS.
THANK YOU FOR ACCEPTING THIS
RESOLUTION FOR CONSIDERING
ACTION AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
YOUR POSITIVE DECISION.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TEACHER
BERTEN
.
&gt;&gt; HELLO MY NAME IS TEACHER
BARTON AND I CURRENTLY LIVE IN
WARD FOUR.
I&apos;M A TAXPAYING PROPERTY OWNER
,NATIVE SON OF ANN ARBOR.
I&apos;M AN EAGLE SCOUT AWARD
RETIRED PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEER,
A FORMER RED CROSS INSTRUCTOR,
A FORMER BIG THE BIG BROTHERS
BIG SISTERS PROGRAM, AN ACTIVE
MEMBER AND WILDLIFE RESCUE, A
YOUTH MENTOR AND A VOLUNTEER
FOR VARIOUS
OTHER COMMUNITY AND
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
I BELIEVE THE POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT
ARE THERE TO PROTECT OFFICERS
AS WELL AS CITIZENS.
I ALSO BELIEVE THAT WITH
REASONABLE EXCEPTIONS THESE
POLICIES CAN ONLY BE EFFECTIVE
IF THEY ARE PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE
INFORMATION OVER A YEAR GO GO
FOIA REQUESTED THE RELEASE
OF THE ANN ARBOR POLICE
DEPARTMENT&apos;S POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES WITH REASONABLE
EXCEPTIONS FOR PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE VIEWING THE EVER
POLICE DEPARTMENT DENIED MY
REQUEST.
I APPEAL THIS DENIAL AND THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AGREED THAT
THERE ARE POLICE POLICIES
OF LAW ENFORCEMENT THAT CAN
ONLY BE EFFECTIVE IF CITIZENS
HAVE ACCESS TO THEM.
THEY RELEASED AS PUBLIC
DOCUMENTS THIRTY NINE OUT
OF THE FORTY TWO POLICIES I
SPECIFICALLY LISTED MY APPEAL.
SINCE THEN I&apos;VE BEEN TRYING TO
GET THE ANN ARBOR POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO POST THOSE PUBLIC
POLICIES ON THEIR WEBSITE.
HERE&apos;S A PROBLEM THE POLICE
STATE THEY NEED TO REVIEW ANY
POLICIES BEFORE IT&apos;S POSTED ON
THEIR WEBSITE BUT POLICIES LIKE
ZERO ZERO ONE DASH ZERO ONE
ZERO WHICH WERE REVIEWED AND
RELEASED ON FOUR NINE TWENTY
TWENTY ONE ARE NOT POSTED IF IT
TAKES MORE THAN A YEAR TO POST
A POLICY BECAUSE IT NEEDS TO BE
REVIEWED AND EVERY YEAR
POLICIES NEED TO BE REVIEWED,
THE POLICIES WILL NEVER
ACTUALLY GET POSTED.
HERE IS THE QUESTION THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR HAS DETERMINED
CERTAIN POLICIES AS INFORMATION
THAT ARE BENEFICIAL TO CITIZENS
ONLY IF IT&apos;S PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE INFORMATION.
WHY IS THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
UNWILLING TO FOLLOW THROUGH AND
HAVE THE ANN ARBOR POLICE
DEPARTMENT POST THESE POLICIES
ON THEIR WEBSITE?
I HOPE THAT THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
WILL USE THE TIME SET ASIDE IN
THIS MEETING TONIGHT TO RESPOND
TO COMMENTS MADE BY CITIZENS
THAN EVER IN THIS PUBLIC FORUM
WE AS CITIZENS HAVE TAKEN THE
TIME TO COME OUT HERE TO SPEAK
TO YOU ABOUT THESE ISSUES.
YOU CAN BE POLITE AND COURTEOUS
ENOUGH TO RESPOND OUR COMMENTS
AND CONCERNS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR FINAL SPEAKER IS GREG
PRATT.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE ON THE PHONE
GREG PRATT IS ON THE LINE.
IF YOU CAN RAISE YOUR HAND IF
YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX TO RAISE
YOUR HAND EXCUSE ME STAR NINE
COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT I DON&apos;T
SEE GREG PRATT ON THE LINE.
MAYBE GIVE HIM A FEW SECONDS
SINCE DELAYED AND IF NOT WE&apos;LL
MOVE ON TO COUNSEL COMMENT.
MR. PRATT, IF YOU WERE THERE
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND
, OK?
DO WE HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
FROM COUNCIL THIS EVENING?
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MERGERS WILL I WANT
TO THANK ALL OF THE CITIZENS
WHO HAVE COMMUNICATED REGARDING
PEDESTRIAN PATHS IN THIS
COMMUNITY.
MOST PEOPLE THAT I&apos;VE BEEN A
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY ADVOCATE FOR
ALMOST TWENTY FIVE YEARS NOW
AND SO I REALLY APPRECIATE IT
WHEN WE HAVE AN ENGAGING
CONVERSATION REGARDING
PEDESTRIAN PATHS.
UNFORTUNATELY THERE WAS A LOT
OF MISINFORMATION INFORMATION
THAT WAS TAKEN OUT OF CONTEXT
AND IT HAS DEFINITELY BEEN AN
OPPORTUNE FOR LESSONS LEARNED.
HOW CAN WE IMPROVE THE PROCESS?
WE DEFINITELY NEED TO IMPROVE
THE PROCESS FOR NON MOTORIZED
TRANSPORT AND WE ALREADY HAD
ONE PROBLEM WITH THE E MEDICAL
CENTER BRIDGE SO WE KNOW THIS
IS AN AREA WHERE WE NEED TO
FOCUS AND SO I HOPE THAT WE
WILL MOVE FORWARD TO MAYBE THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION CAN
TAKE A LOOK AT IT.
I&apos;M NOT SURE I&apos;LL CHECK WITH
WITH STAFF ON THIS TOMORROW TO
SEE HOW WE CAN IMPROVE IT.
THE SECOND THING IS WHEN I WAS
FIRST ELECTED TO COUNCIL I
INTRODUCED A COMMUNICATIONS
RESOLUTION.
IT DID NOT MAKE IT OUT
OF COMMITTEE.
I PLAN TO REINTRODUCE A
COMMUNICATIONS RESOLUTION IN
JUNE AT THE ADMINISTER STATION
MEETING.
I THINK WE NEED SOME
CLARIFICATION REGARDING SOCIAL
MEDIA.
SOCIAL MEDIA IS A GREAT TOOL
FOR SHARING INFORMATION.
I HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT
VIOLATIONS OF THE OPEN MEETINGS
ACT WHEN WE START DELIBERATING
COUNCIL BUSINESS ON SOCIAL
MEDIA AND THERE ARE SO MANY
DIFFERENT SOCIAL MEDIA
PLATFORMS NOW THAT IT&apos;S HARD TO
KEEP UP WITH ALL OF THEM.
SO THANK YOU AND ALSO I AM
AVAILABLE IF ANY OF THE
SPEAKERS TONIGHT WOULD LIKE TO
REACH OUT TO ME TOMORROW.
MY PHONE NUMBER AND EMAIL
ADDRESS ARE ON THE WEBSITE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS FROM COUNCIL?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, OK COUNCILOR RAMLI AND
THEN OR SOMEONE ELSE THEN
WHICHEVER ONE OF YOU WOULD LIKE
TO GO FIRST I SAW YOU RAISE
YOUR HANDS AT THE SAME TIME I
ATTENDED A MEETING LAST WEEK
THAT WOULD BE INTERESTING
INTERESTING TO RESIDENTS WHO
ARE NAVIGATING ON STATE OR HILL
THERE&apos;S A STATE HILL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT THAT HAS A
NUMBER OF CONSIDERATIONS THAT
WILL HOPEFULLY IMPROVE SAFETY
FOR CYCLISTS AND PEDESTRIANS IN
THE AREA.
BUT THERE&apos;S INFORMATION ON MY
WEBSITE TO L.M. TO HELP YOU
MORE EASILY FIND THE
INFORMATION ON THE CITY&apos;S
WEBSITE.
YOU CAN SIGN UP FOR UPDATES IF
YOU WANT TO TRACK THIS ISSUE.
I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE IMPROVEMENTS
THERE.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE AS
A STATE OF HILL NO PUN INTENDED
IS PRETTY TERRIBLE RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU HANDSOMELY.
THANK YOU.
UM, I WAS NOT HERE AT OUR LAST
MEETING UNFORTUNATELY WAS THE
FIRST MEETING I MISSED AND
NEARLY FOUR YEARS I HAD COME
DOWN WITH COVID SO IT WASN&apos;T
ABLE TO MAKE IT AND I MADE A
FULL RECOVERY .
I APPRECIATE ALL THE WELL
WISHES MEMBERS OF THIS BODY
SENT AND MOST IMPORTANTLY
REALLY IS THAT THAT SAME WEEK
MY SIGNATURES WERE DUE AND I
HAVE HAD HAD TO HAVE AN
AFFIDAVIT OF IDENTITY TO GO
ALONG WITH MY SIGNATURES TO
APPEAR BACK ON THE BALLOT IN
AUGUST AND SCRAMBLING TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO DO THAT AND
FORTUNATELY WE HAVE A SUPERSTAR
FOR A CITY CLERK AND IT&apos;S
BEAUDRY WE ACTUALLY CAME TO MY
HOUSE UM FULLY PROTECTED AND
MET ME OUTSIDE OR SHE WAS AND
ACCEPTED MY SIGNATURES AND
WITNESSED ME SIGN THE AFFIDAVIT
OF IDENTITY AND UH SUCCESSFULLY
ABLE TO TURN IN SIGNATURES TO
APPEAR ON THE BALLOT.
SO REALLY UH A LOT OF A LOT
OF THANKS IS IS DUE TO THE
PERSON DIRECTLY BEHIND ME AND
UH UH JUST IF THERE&apos;S ONE
POSITION IN THIS CITY HALL THAT
REALLY EARNS THE TRUST OF THE
ENTIRE COMMUNITY, IT SHOULD BE
OUR CITY CLERK AND THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT.
SO THANKS AGAIN AND UH THAT&apos;S
IT FOR NOW.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCILMAN BRIAN.
I&apos;D LIKE TO ADDRESS AN ITEM
THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S BEEN REMOVED FROM THE
I&apos;D LIKE TO ADDRESS AN ITEM
AGENDA DC FOR WOULD HAVE
THAT&apos;S BEEN REMOVED FROM THE
AUTHORIZED CITY STAFF TO
AGENDA DC FOR WOULD HAVE
NEGOTIATE AN EASEMENT TO TAKE
AUTHORIZED CITY STAFF TO
OVER A DILAPIDATED ASPHALT
NEGOTIATE AN EASEMENT TO TAKE
CONNECTOR PATHWAY THROUGH
OVER A DILAPIDATED ASPHALT
WALDEN VILLAGE CONDOS AND WORD
CONNECTOR PATHWAY THROUGH
FOR WHEN WALDEN VILLAGE WAS
WALDEN VILLAGE CONDOS AND WORD
DEVELOPED THE CITY AND THE
FOR WHEN WALDEN VILLAGE WAS
DEVELOPER RECOGNIZED THE
DEVELOPED THE CITY AND THE
IMPORTANCE OF MAINTAINING THIS
DEVELOPER RECOGNIZED THE
WHAT WAS ALREADY A PUBLIC
IMPORTANCE OF MAINTAINING THIS
CORRIDOR.
WHAT WAS ALREADY A PUBLIC
SO IT WAS WRITTEN INTO THE DEED
CORRIDOR.
AS PART OF THE AGREEMENT THAT
SO IT WAS WRITTEN INTO THE DEED
THE CONDO ASSOCIATION WOULD
AS PART OF THE AGREEMENT THAT
PAVE AND MAINTAIN THE PATHWAY
THE CONDO ASSOCIATION WOULD
GOING FORWARD.
PAVE AND MAINTAIN THE PATHWAY
&gt;&gt; UNFORTUNATELY OVER THE
GOING FORWARD.
DECADES THE CONDO ASSOCIATION
&gt;&gt; UNFORTUNATELY OVER THE
DIDN&apos;T LIVE UP TO THIS LEGAL
DECADES THE CONDO ASSOCIATION
OBLIGATION.
DIDN&apos;T LIVE UP TO THIS LEGAL
I BEGAN WORKING ON THIS ISSUE
OBLIGATION.
LAST OR SHORTLY AFTER TAKING
I BEGAN WORKING ON THIS ISSUE
OFFICE THAT INCLUDED FIRST
LAST OR SHORTLY AFTER TAKING
GETTING EDUCATED ON WHO IS WHO
OFFICE THAT INCLUDED FIRST
WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PATHWAY
GETTING EDUCATED ON WHO IS WHO
AND HOW THE CITY NORMALLY DEALS
WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PATHWAY
WITH DILAPIDATED PRIVATE
AND HOW THE CITY NORMALLY DEALS
INFRASTRUCTURE SUCH AS THIS.
WITH DILAPIDATED PRIVATE
AS THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR NOTED
INFRASTRUCTURE SUCH AS THIS.
IN HIS MEMO TO COUNCIL THIS
AS THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR NOTED
WEEK, THE CITY&apos;S APPROACH IS TO
IN HIS MEMO TO COUNCIL THIS
EXHAUST EVERY POSSIBLE APPROACH
WEEK, THE CITY&apos;S APPROACH IS TO
AN AVENUE TO GETTING THE
EXHAUST EVERY POSSIBLE APPROACH
PROPERTY OWNER TO FULFILL THEIR
AN AVENUE TO GETTING THE
OBLIGATION BEFORE EVEN
PROPERTY OWNER TO FULFILL THEIR
CONSIDERING ACQUISITION.
OBLIGATION BEFORE EVEN
LAST FALL CITY STAFF BEGAN
CONSIDERING ACQUISITION.
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE CONDO
LAST FALL CITY STAFF BEGAN
BOARD ABOUT THE NEED FOR THEM
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE CONDO
TO FIX THE PATHWAY TO THE CONDO
BOARD ABOUT THE NEED FOR THEM
BOARD&apos;S CREDIT.
TO FIX THE PATHWAY TO THE CONDO
THOSE DISCUSSIONS WENT WELL AND
BOARD&apos;S CREDIT.
IN MARCH THE BOARD COMMUNICATED
THOSE DISCUSSIONS WENT WELL AND
THAT THEY HAD DECIDED TO
IN MARCH THE BOARD COMMUNICATED
COMMISSION A STUDY TO LOOK AT
THAT THEY HAD DECIDED TO
FIXING THE PATHWAY AMONG OTHER
COMMISSION A STUDY TO LOOK AT
THINGS AND DEVELOP A FINANCIAL
FIXING THE PATHWAY AMONG OTHER
PLAN.
THINGS AND DEVELOP A FINANCIAL
THE RESOLUTION THAT HAS NOW
PLAN.
BEEN WITHDRAWN WOULD HAVE
THE RESOLUTION THAT HAS NOW
PREEMPTED FURTHER PROGRESS IN
BEEN WITHDRAWN WOULD HAVE
THIS DIRECTION AND INSTEAD
PREEMPTED FURTHER PROGRESS IN
COMMITTED THE CITY TO BUYING A
THIS DIRECTION AND INSTEAD
FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLAR
COMMITTED THE CITY TO BUYING A
LIABILITY FOR A DOLLAR.
FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLAR
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A RADICAL
LIABILITY FOR A DOLLAR.
DEPARTURE FROM CITY PRACTICE
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A RADICAL
AND SET A PRECEDENT THAT
DEPARTURE FROM CITY PRACTICE
ENCOURAGES PROPERTY OWNERS IN
AND SET A PRECEDENT THAT
SIMILAR CIRCUMSTANCES TO
ENCOURAGES PROPERTY OWNERS IN
ABANDON THEIR LEGAL OBLIGATIONS
SIMILAR CIRCUMSTANCES TO
BECAUSE THE CITY WILL
ABANDON THEIR LEGAL OBLIGATIONS
PRESUMABLY BAIL THEM OUT NOW
BECAUSE THE CITY WILL
THAT THE RESOLUTION HAS WISELY
PRESUMABLY BAIL THEM OUT NOW
BEEN WITHDRAWN.
THAT THE RESOLUTION HAS WISELY
I UNDERSTAND FROM MR. HONI THAT
BEEN WITHDRAWN.
STAFF IS FREE TO RESTART
I UNDERSTAND FROM MR. HONI THAT
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE CONDO
STAFF IS FREE TO RESTART
ASSOCIATION TO RESOLVE THESE
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE CONDO
INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS
ASSOCIATION TO RESOLVE THESE
CREATIVELY.
INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS
MY GOAL IS AND HAS ALWAYS BEEN
CREATIVELY.
TO GET THE PATHWAY FIXED AS
MY GOAL IS AND HAS ALWAYS BEEN
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE AND DO IT
TO GET THE PATHWAY FIXED AS
IN A WAY THAT IS FAIR AND
QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE AND DO IT
FOLLOWS PRECEDENT.
IN A WAY THAT IS FAIR AND
I BELIEVE WE CAN GET THAT DONE
FOLLOWS PRECEDENT.
TOGETHER.
I BELIEVE WE CAN GET THAT DONE
THANK YOU.
TOGETHER.
ANY OTHER COMMUNICATIONS FROM
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THEN
ANY OTHER COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COUNCILMAN RYAN I BELIEVE
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THEN
COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD WAS
COUNCILMAN RYAN I BELIEVE
ALLUDING TO A SOCIAL MEDIA POST
COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD WAS
THAT I HAD POSTED ON THIS ISSUE
ALLUDING TO A SOCIAL MEDIA POST
AND ALERTING FOLKS TO OUR
THAT I HAD POSTED ON THIS ISSUE
ASPHALT REPAIR FUND WHEN I HAD
AND ALERTING FOLKS TO OUR
ASKED CITY STAFF ABOUT WHETHER
ASPHALT REPAIR FUND WHEN I HAD
THERE&apos;S A FUND TO ACQUIRE
ASKED CITY STAFF ABOUT WHETHER
EASEMENTS, I WAS REALLY CURIOUS
THERE&apos;S A FUND TO ACQUIRE
ABOUT IT BECAUSE THIS ISSUE HAS
EASEMENTS, I WAS REALLY CURIOUS
COME UP AND MORE TO WHERE
ABOUT IT BECAUSE THIS ISSUE HAS
RACKET CLUB HAD OFFERED TO SELL
COME UP AND MORE TO WHERE
THE CITY AND EASEMENT TO BUILD
RACKET CLUB HAD OFFERED TO SELL
A SIDEWALK AND AT THAT TIME I
THE CITY AND EASEMENT TO BUILD
HAD TALKED WITH PLANNING.
A SIDEWALK AND AT THAT TIME I
THEY SAID THERE IS NO SUCH FUND
HAD TALKED WITH PLANNING.
TO BUY PRIVATE PROPERTY IN
THEY SAID THERE IS NO SUCH FUND
ORDER TO FULFILL PUBLIC
TO BUY PRIVATE PROPERTY IN
OBLIGATION TO THE COMMUNITY.
ORDER TO FULFILL PUBLIC
SO YOU KNOW, I PRESSED FURTHER
OBLIGATION TO THE COMMUNITY.
AND I FOUND THERE&apos;S AN ASPHALT
SO YOU KNOW, I PRESSED FURTHER
IMPROVEMENT FUND THAT&apos;S
AND I FOUND THERE&apos;S AN ASPHALT
ALLOCATED
FROM THE SIDEWALK
MILEAGE AND ALSO A PROCESS TO
EVALUATE THE PATHWAYS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY AND WARD
TWO IS SCHEDULED IS AMONG THOSE
PATHWAYS PATHWAYS SCHEDULED FOR
REPAIR IN 2023.
MIND YOU FOLKS IN OUR WARD HAVE
BEEN WAITING FOR REPAIRS ON
ERHART AND GLAZIER FOR YEARS
NOW SINCE COUNCIL HAD VOTED
AGAINST REPAIRS ALONG ERHART
SEVERAL YEARS AGO.
SO I THINK FOLKS WHO ARE
CALLING AND EMAILING IN ARE
EXCITED WITH THE PROSPECT
OF HAVING THESE AREAS PAVED AS
SCHEDULED AS STAFF HAD REVIEWED
AND YOU KNOW, RESPONDED TO
COMMUNITY AND I&apos;M REALLY
ENCOURAGED BY THAT ALSO THE
PUBLIC ART COMMISSION HAD ASKED
ME TO INVITE FOLKS TO OUR NEXT
MEETING ON JUNE 1ST AT SEVEN
THIRTY THEY&apos;LL BE BEGINNING A
COMMITTEE ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
PROCESS ON DISBURSEMENT OF OUR
FUNDS FROM ARPA.
I ALSO WANTED TO THANK PARKS
FOR WORKING WITH VOLUNTEERS,
COMMUNITY ACTIVISTS WORKING ON
A BLACK LIVES MATTER MURAL SITE
AND TRYING TO TRYING TO PICK A
PARK FOR THIS FOR THIS EFFORT.
&gt;&gt; AND FINALLY I WANTED TO IF I
CAN ENCOURAGE THE COMMUNITY TO
TAKE A LOOK AT STATE
REPRESENTATIVE RAJEEV PIERIS
SPEECH AT THE STATE LEGISLATURE
RECENTLY INTRODUCING HOUSE
RESOLUTION TWO EIGHT WANTED
CLEAR MADE 2022 AS AAPI
HERITAGE MONTH THAT&apos;S
ASIAN-AMERICAN PACIFIC ISLANDER
HERITAGE MONTH.
HE SPOKE MOVINGLY ABOUT MODEL
MY MINORITY MYTHS ANTIGUAN HATE
FROM VINCENT CHIN&apos;S MURDER IN
DETROIT IN THE 80S COVID
RELATED HATE CRIMES TO
ANTI-MUSLIM VIOLENCE AGAINST A
SIKH COMMUNITY.
I WILL BE PLANNING TO INTRODUCE
A SIMILAR EFFORT AT OUR NEXT
COUNCIL MEETING AND I HOPE FOR
EVERYONE&apos;S SUPPORT.
&gt;&gt; OH I&apos;M SORRY.
ONE LAST THING THE COUNTY&apos;S
APPLICATION PROCESS IS ENDS
SOON.
&gt;&gt; SO IF FOLKS ARE STILL
LOOKING FOR COVID RELATED
RENTAL RELIEF, OUR OFFICE
OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IS
ENCOURAGING APPLICATIONS TO
COME IN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COUNCILOR.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THANKS.
I&apos;M SORRY TO SEE THAT THAT
SPEAKER MR. BURTON LEFT EARLY
BECAUSE HE ASKED US TO ADDRESS
YOU KNOW, HIS TOPIC BUT HE&apos;S
NOT AROUND FOR IT.
BUT YOU KNOW, I&apos;VE BEEN TRYING
TO ADDRESS THAT TOPIC.
I&apos;VE HAD ALL KINDS
OF CORRESPONDENCE MEETING WITH
CHIEF COX AND OTHER COMMAND
STAFF AND YOU KNOW, HE&apos;S ASKED
THAT WE BRING A RESOLUTION TO
PUT A DEADLINE ON THE TIME BY
WHICH THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
WOULD HAVE TO POST THESE
THINGS.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE&apos;VE HAD I THINK
WE&apos;VE SEEN IT A BODY THAT WE&apos;VE
HAD ALL KINDS OF RESOLUTIONS
THAT PUT DEADLINES ON THINGS
AND IT DOESN&apos;T NECESSARILY MEAN
THAT IT CAN BE DONE ANY FASTER,
YOU KNOW, AND MY UNDERSTANDING
OF THAT AND THE CORRESPONDENCE
THAT WE&apos;VE HAD IS THAT THE PD
IS REVIEWING ALL THESE THINGS
AND THEY&apos;RE PUTTING THEM UP TO
THEIR BEST OF THEIR ABILITY AND
YOU I HOPE THAT&apos;S THE CASE.
I&apos;M TAKING THEIR WORD ON THAT
AND I HAVE NO REASON TO THINK
IT ISN&apos;T YOU KNOW THAT SINCE IT
WAS STRUCK FROM THE AGENDA I
WAS PREPARED TO SUPPORT DC FOR
THIS PATHWAY&apos;S THING BECAUSE IT
IS NO RADICAL DEPARTURE FROM
CITY POLICY THAT THE CITY TAKE
CHARGE OF ALL ITS WALKING PASS
BECAUSE THE SIDEWALK LADY DID
JUST THAT AND WE TOOK CHARGE
OF 300 SOME ODD MILES
OF SIDEWALKS FROM THE COMMUNITY
AND EVERY TIME A NEW
DEVELOPMENT GOES IN IT&apos;S MORE
LIKELY THAN NOT THAT THOSE ARE
PUBLIC STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
THAT ARE PUT IN WITH THAT NEW
DEVELOPMENT AND WE TAKE CHARGE
IN CARE OF THOSE TOO.
SO IT WASN&apos;T A RADICAL
DEPARTURE TO ASK THE CITY TO TO
TAKE OVER FOR SOMETHING WHERE A
PRIVATE ENTITY HAS FAILED TO DO
SO.
I MEAN THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE
DRIVING REASONS BEHIND THE
SIDEWALK MEETINGS WHERE WE HAD
FOLKS THAT EITHER DIDN&apos;T WANT
TO OR COULDN&apos;T AFFORD TO
REPLACE THEIR CRACK LABS AND SO
ON AT 250 A POP I WENT IN AND
YOU KNOW, WE RECOGNIZE IT THE
SIDEWALKS IN PASS AND VARIOUS
PEDESTRIAN BENCHES ARE PUBLIC
GOOD AND THEY&apos;RE THERE IN MANY
WAYS THEIR MAINTENANCE NEEDS TO
BE COMMONLY SHARED AND THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT WE DO AS A
COMMUNITY HERE.
SO YOU KNOW, I HOPE THAT I HOPE
THAT THEY RESIGN IN AGREEMENT
AND STICK TO AND IF THEY DON&apos;T,
I THINK IT WOULD BE NO BIG DEAL
IF WE TOOK IT OVER ALONG WITH
ALL THE OTHER HUNDREDS OF MILES
THAT WE&apos;VE DONE IN THE PAST.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENT FROM OK AND I
APOLOGIZE FOR THE LENGTH
OF THESE NOMINATIONS BUT BEFORE
I GO FORWARD WITH ALL THE
NOMINATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS
THAT WILL BE COMING FORWARD AT
A FUTURE MEETING, I DO JUST
WANT TO TAKE A MINUTE TO THINK
THE DEPTH AND BREADTH
OF VOLUNTEERS AND PEOPLE WHO
REALLY DO GIVE THEIR TIME AND
EXPERTIZE TO OUR COMMUNITY AND
SO AGAIN APOLOGIZE FOR THE
LENGTH OF THE LIST BUT THERE
ARE A BUNCH OF NOMINATIONS
COMING FORWARD BECAUSE IT&apos;S
JUST THAT TIME OF YEAR.
SO THE FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS
ARE BEING PRESENTED FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE AIRPORT
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
MELANIE MCNICHOLAS TO THE ANN
ARBOR AREA TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY BOARD.
KATHLEEN MUSAC TO THE ANNENBERG
PUBLIC ART COMMISSION.
HOW YOU LEONARD AND KEVIN COX
TO THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS PAUL DARLING TO THE
CENTER OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
THE COMMENTS ON HABOUR ADAM
LEMCKE ALICE RALPH CARMILLA
ELISENDA FRANK WILHELM GEOFFREY
HENRY JENNIFER CORNELL RITA AND
RITA MITCHELL TO THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MAHMOODY
SARAH HAMMERSCHMIDT AND ELLIOTT
ABRAMS TO THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES ALEX GOSSAGE.
KATHLEEN MUSAC LARRY KEYLA TO
THE DESIGN REVIEW BOARD.
GARY COOPER TO THE DOWNTOWN
AREA CITIZENS ADVISORY COUNCIL
DONALD DUKAT, JOHN CHAMBERLIN
AND JOHN FRENCH TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY TYLER
KINNEY TO THE ELIZABETH DENHA
COMMITTEE DONALD WERTMAN
ELIZABETH COLLINS TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
KAYLENE COLVIN GARCIA TO THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
DAVID ROCKLYN AND CATHERINE
FORTNER TO THE HOUSING BOARD
OF APPEALS TIM DURHAM AND JERRY
SOLTI TO THE HOUSING COMMISSION
DENHA FOR TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION LINDA WINCKLER, KITA
COHEN AND AID AND SOVA TO THE
HURON RIVER WATERSHED COUNCIL.
JANICE BODHRAN TO THE LESLIE
SCIENCE AND NATURE CENTER BOARD
OF DIRECTORS CITY
REPRESENTATIVE PAIGE MORRISON
TO THE PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION
RUTH CROWD TO THE PUBLIC MARKET
ADVISORY COMMISSION PETER WOLF
TO THE RENTERS COMMISSION.
LIAM MOTH LUCY PETERSON AND
KRISTEN KAITO TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
BUT HAUTAMKI AND MEGAN PROVEN
TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
TOD GRANT, CHRIS FRALEY AND TO
THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION BOARD MILTON DOWNEY
JR. AND THEN THERE WILL ALSO BE
SOME NOMINATIONS COMING FORWARD
FROM THOSE WHO ARE NOT
REGISTERED LECTURES IN THE CITY
AND THAT IS ON THE ANN PUBLIC
ARTS COMMISSION MARY DEFOE&apos;S
AND SO IF YOU GROW IT TO THE
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
THOMAS RIGHT TO THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD JEFFREY PERKINS TO
THE RECREATION ADVISORY
COMMISSION, LAWRENCE O&apos;CONNELL
TO THE VENTURES COMMISSION
KOZIN WELCH AND DAN DONGSHAN
AND ANOTHER APPRECIATION FOR
OUR CLUB WHO KNEW THAT THAT WAS
A LOT FOR ME TO READ.
&gt;&gt; SO SHE PRINTED OUT IN
ADVANCE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
MAY HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVED BY
COUNCIL AND BRITISH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER NATHAN.
&gt;&gt; ANY COMMENT OR DISCUSSION ON
THE CONSENT AGENDA?
&gt;&gt; YES, COUNCILMAN OLSSEN I&apos;D
LIKE TO POLSKA SEVEN.
&gt;&gt; ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
YES MA&apos;AM.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO HAVE C14 REMOVED
FOR DISCUSSION PLEASE.
OK ANYTHING ELSE OK SEEING NO
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR I
OPPOSED THE CONCERNING
UNDERPASSES WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF SEVEN AND SEE A FOURTEEN
ALSO SATISFYING JUST WITH EIGHT
THE EIGHT REQUIREMENT OF C A
SIX C A FIFTEEN AND THOSE ARE
THE ONLY TWO ALL RIGHT SEVEN
AND I HAVE A MOTION TO PROCEED
SEVEN MOVE BY CONSERVATIVE
SECOND SECOND COUNCILMAN A.N.
COUNCILOR ANDERSON THANK YOU.
I WAS HOPING TO HEAR SOME
EXPLANATION FROM STAFF ON I I
REALLY APPRECIATE THIS IS A
CREATIVE SOLUTION AND I WAS
WONDERING ON I WAS WONDERING I
GUESS IF WE CONTEMPLATE IF THIS
IS SUCCESSFUL TRANSITIONING
AWAY FROM OR I GUESS I WOULD
LIKE A LITTLE MORE EXPLANATION
ABOUT HOW THE THE SHARED NATURE
OF THIS DO YOU FOLLOW WHAT I&apos;M
SAYING?
LIKE WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE GETTING
CALLS AND LIKE SOME OF OUR CITY
STAFF ARE GOING TO BE TAKING
THEM.
IT SOUNDS LIKE A REALLY GOOD
PLAN TO IMPROVE OUR LEVEL
OF SERVICE.
SO I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO HEAR MORE
EXPLANATION ABOUT THIS.
UH, I CAN I COULD ACTUALLY
ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
CHEAP KINDIES AVAILABLE.
&gt;&gt; WHY DON&apos;T YOU HAVE HIM DO IT
THAT EVENING COUNCIL A COUNCIL
MEMBER NELSON IN ANSWER TO YOUR
QUESTION, THE PLAN IS THIS TO
BE A SYSTEM IN CONCERT IN
COORDINATION WITH HVA NOT TO
REPLACE THEM.
THAT WOULD BE A MONUMENTAL
EFFORT TO TRY TO COME FROM BOTH
A STAFFING AND LOGISTICS
VEHICLE THAT&apos;S NOT ON THAT&apos;S
NOT NOT ANYTHING THAT&apos;S BEING
CURRENTLY TOO TO DO THIS.
SO SOME BASIC MATH ON THAT.
THAT WOULD BE A PROJECT WELL
NORTH OF A MILLION DOLLARS AND
THE THAT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A
CONSERVATIVE ESTIMATE AT BEST.
THIS IS MEANT TO BE AS IT&apos;S
STATED, A SAFETY NET.
SO IN VAGOS WHAT WE CALL ZERO
STATUS, THEY HAVE NO AMBULANCES
AVAILABLE AND OUR FIREFIGHTERS
HAVE A OF SAFETY THAT WE CAN
TRANSPORT
A CRITICAL PATIENT OR
IF WE&apos;RE ON SCENE WITH A NON
CRITICAL PATIENT AND THEIR
AMBULANCES KEEP GETTING
DIVERTED.
THIS ALLOWS US THAT OPPORTUNITY
TO DO SO TO THANK YOU.
DO HOW OFTEN DOES THIS HAPPEN
THAT YOU MAKE A CALL TO VA AND
THEY HAVE NOT AVAILABLE LIKE
HOW HOW OFTEN DO YOU ANTICIPATE
THAT THIS IS LIKELY TO HAPPEN?
I APOLOGIZE.
I DON&apos;T HAVE THE THE STATS
DIRECTLY IN FRONT OF ME.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S BEEN SEVERAL HUNDRED
TIMES OVER THE LAST COUPLE
YEARS AND WITH THAT IT&apos;S WE
HAVE BEEN ON SCENE WITH BOTH
CRITICAL AND NON-CRITICAL
PATIENTS FOR AN EXTENDED PERIOD
OF TIME AS RECENTLY AS EIGHT
APRIL 21ST WE WERE ON SCENE FOR
AN HOUR WAITING FOR AN
AMBULANCE AND THE IMPACT
OF THAT IS IS THAT FIRE COMPANY
IS OUT OF SERVICE ONCE WE MAKE
PATIENT CONTACT WE CAN&apos;T
ABANDON CARE.
AND SO WHAT WE&apos;RE AT MINIMUM
WEEKLY BASIS SOMETIMES DAILY
BASIS ARE THESE EXTENDED
RESPONSE TIMES AND A LOT
OF TIMES THEY AREN&apos;T CRITICAL
PATIENT BUT THE IMPACT IT&apos;S
HAVING IS THAT IT IS IT&apos;S
TAKING OUR FIRE APPARATUS OUT
OF SERVICE AND IT&apos;S HAVING AN
IMPACT ON OUR RESPONSE TO OTHER
EMERGENCIES IN THE BACK HALF
OF CALENDAR WE ONE HAD TO
STRUCTURE FIRES WITHIN A WEEK
AND WE HAD TO FIRE COMPANIES
UNAVAILING FOR THOSE STRUCTURE
FIRES BECAUSE THEY WERE SITTING
ON PATIENTS.
SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;RE
TRYING TO ADDRESS THAT THIS IS
WHY WHY WE ARE DOING THE TRIAL
IS SO WE CAN HAVE SOME DATA FOR
EXACTLY HOW OFTEN WE ARE GOING
TO BE TRANSPORTING.
A BEST GUESS WOULD BE THIS IS
PROBABLY SOMETHING THAT WILL
HAPPEN DAILY IF NOT MULTIPLE
TIMES A DAY.
OK, THANK YOU CANCER AND I
THANK YOU THANK YOU CHIEF
KENNEDY FOR BEING HERE.
I GOT THE QUESTION I JUST
REMEMBER WHEN WE FIRST WHEN I
FIRST JOINED COUNCIL THERE WAS
DISCUSSION ON NEEDING
ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT FOR LIFE
SUPPORT FOR TRANSPORTATION SUCH
THERE&apos;S A COUPLE HUNDRED
THOUSAND OUR ASK AND UH
APOLOGIZE HAS THAT BEEN
FULFILLED THAT WE PURCHASED
THAT THAT VEHICLE THAT WAS THAT
WAS ASKED FOR A FEW YEARS BACK
?
SO THAT WAS LITERALLY RIGHT
BEFORE COVID SO SO THAT REQUEST
IN DECEMBER OF NINETEEN AND AS
YOU ALL KNOW TOO WELL THE WORLD
CHANGED MARCH OF TWENTY AND
WITH THAT WE HAD A BIT OF A
RESET AND THAT THIS WAS A VERY
BIG PROBLEM RECODED WITH
EVERYTHING THAT WENT ON WITH
COVID IT KIND SUBSIDED AND THEN
THIS HAS REALLY TAKEN OFF OFF
SUMMER OF TWENTY ONE IS WHEN WE
JUST NOTICED A SIGNA FICKEN
INCREASE IN THE LACK
OF AVAILABLE AMBULANCES AND IT
REALLY BECAME NOTED WHEN
STUDENTS CAME BACK IN REALLY
ENFORCE THIS LAST SCHOOL YEAR
WE SAW THAT IMPACT.
SO IN ANSWER TO YOUR ORIGINAL
WE DID NOT PURCHASE A TRANSPORT
AMBULANCE BACK IN THE IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN FISCAL FISCAL TWENTY
ONE AND COVID WE WEREN&apos;T SURE
WHAT WAS GOING TO HAPPEN WITH
ALL OF IT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHY THAT DIDN&apos;T GO
FORWARD.
COULD COULD YOU BETTER EXPLAIN
HOW WE&apos;RE ABLE TO TO TAKE ON
THESE ADDITIONAL
RESPONSIBILITIES WITHOUT
WITHOUT THAT PIECE OF EQUIPMENT
?
&gt;&gt; ARE WE PLANNING TO TO GET
ONE?
SO WHAT THIS TRIAL DOES IS
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE A SO HVA
HAS MORE AMBULANCES THAN PEOPLE
AND SO A V AMBULANCE IS
LITERALLY GOING TO BE PARKED
ACROSS THE STREET AND FIRE
STATION ONE STAFFED TO AND OR
TO ANN ARBOR FIREFIGHTERS RIGHT
NOW WE HAVE A LIGHT WHAT WE
CALL A LIGHT RESCUE.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A PICK UP THAT&apos;S NON
TRANSPORT AND SO INSTEAD OF ON
THAT TRUCK, THESE TWO
FIREFIGHTER EMTS ARE GOING TO
BE ON IN VIA TRANSPORT ROUTE.
SO THAT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHAT THIS
TRIAL IS DOING.
YEAH, I WAS I WAS KIND
OF WONDERING IF I LOST
SOMETHING BUT THANKS FOR
EXPLAINING THAT AND I GUESS
WE&apos;LL WE&apos;LL STAY TUNED TO SEE
WHAT THE WHAT THE EXPERIENCE
WITH NEW ARRANGEMENTS LIKE ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS.
OKAY.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR I OPPOSED OK
SAY SEVEN PASSES I SEE A
FOURTEEN RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
A CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT WITH
BAILEY EXCAVATING FOR THE
TWENTY TWENTY TWO MISCELLANEOUS
UTILITY PROJECTS MOVED BY
COUNCILOR HAYNER SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR DESH DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MAHINA THANK YOU SO A
COUPLE OF COMMENTS AND A
QUESTION.
MY QUESTION IS I GUESS TO ASK
MY QUESTION FIRST WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ANSWER HAVE BASED ON
PREVIOUS BIDS THAT WE HAVE
RECEIVED FROM THIS CONTRACTOR
HAVE HAVE WE FULLY VETTED THE
APPLICATIONS THIS TIME TO MAKE
SURE THAT ALL THE INFORMATION
ON THERE IS COMPLETE AND
ACCURATE?
&gt;&gt; MR BUT WANT TO ANSWER THAT.
I CAN ANSWER THAT YES THANKS
THANKS.
THIS IS NICK HUTCHINSON, CITY
ENGINEER.
YEAH WE&apos;VE GOT THE CONCERNS
THAT WE HEARD PREVIOUSLY WERE
REGARDING SAFETY RECORD.
WE&apos;VE CHECKED AND VERIFIED THE
INFORMATION THAT THEY&apos;VE
SUBMITTED WITH THE OSHA
WEBSITE.
&gt;&gt; SO YES THEY HAVE OK SO THIS
HAD TO CONCERNS ABOUT THIS.
THE FIRST CONCERN IS RELATED TO
THE LETTER WE RECEIVED FROM THE
MICHIGAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND
TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION.
IT&apos;S A GROUP OF FOLKS HERE WHO
FOLKS HERE A STATE WHO BID ON
THESE TYPE OF PROJECTS AND
REPRESENT CONTRACTORS AND YOU
KNOW, THEY HAVE CONCERNS THAT
THE METHOD THAT WE&apos;RE USING TO
DETERMINE THESE IS COULD BE
CONSIDERED ANTI-COMPETITIVE IN
THAT IT WHAT YOU MAY HAVE HEARD
THIS CONVERSATION AT THIS TABLE
BEFORE BUT IT CREATES A
SUBJECTIVE RATHER THAN
OBJECTIVE WAY TO VIEW THESE
BIDS AND IT WEIGHS THEM IN A
MANNER THAT MAY BE CONSIDERED
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BY SOME.
INDEED THE FOLKS AT MIGHT
BELIEVE THAT THIS THIS MAY BE
AN INSTANCE OF THAT.
AND THE SECOND CONCERN I HAVE
IS THAT THIS IS A CONTRACT THAT
IS IF YOU READ THE RESOLUTION
YOU SEE THAT IT&apos;S BEING PAID
FOR WITH BONDS THAT HAVE NOT
YET SOLD.
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE PAID FOR WITH
PROCEEDS FROM BONDS THAT ARE
YET TO BE ISSUED.
SO BECAUSE OF MY CONCERNS ABOUT
THE NATURE OF THE THE CONTRACT
SCREENING PROCESS, I&apos;M JUST NOT
GOING TO SUPPORT THIS.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T WANT TO PUT MY NAME
TO THIS THIS KIND OF THING.
I I WAS NOT SURPRISED TO SEE
THAT LETTER FROM MAITA AND I&apos;M
I I BELIEVE IT&apos;S ACCURATE.
HEY, ANY OTHER COMMENTS FOR C14
COMES FROM LOGAN AND COMES
MARIAH.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I UNFORTUNATELY WASN&apos;T
HERE AT OUR LAST MEETING AND
SINCE WE&apos;RE ON THIS TOPIC
OF CONTRACTS AND CONTRACTORS IN
CRITERIA FOR SCORING SUCH IN
AWARDING THEM WELL I JUST KNOW
I GUESS I&apos;LL JUST HAVE TO SAVE
MY COMMENTS FOR FOR
COMMUNICATIONS BECAUSE THEY
DON&apos;T NECESSARILY PERTAIN TO
THIS HERE BUT A SHARE THE
CONCERNS THAT WERE RAISED BY
THE TRADE GROUP WHO SENT US ALL
A LETTER WHO RAISED QUESTIONS
AND THE ANTI COMPETITIVE
PROCESS AND THE EFFECTS PROP
WILL HAVE ON FUTURE CONTRACTS
IS GOING TO BID ON THOSE
CONTRACTS AND HOW MUCH IT&apos;S
GOING TO COST THE CITY AS WE GO
FORWARD.
I BELIEVE IT&apos;S GOING TO BE MORE
OF A CHALLENGE FOR THE CITY TO
DELIVER WHAT IT NEEDS TO
DELIVER BASED ON THE WAY
CONTRACTS ARE NOW BEING AWARDED
AND HOW THE CITY IS VIEWED BY
CONTRACTORS.
COUNCILOR ER THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO TAKE A MINUTE TO
THANK STAFF FOR THE REALLY
DILIGENT HARD WORK THAT THEY&apos;VE
PUT IN TO ADAPT THE SCORING
SYSTEM AND TO IMPLEMENT IT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH COUNCIL POLICY
AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH WHAT A
VAST MAJORITY YOU KNOW 70 SOME
PERCENT OF ANN ARBOR VOTERS
SAID THEY WANTED WHICH IS TO
STOP AWARDING CONTRACTS ON THE
BASIS OF CHEAPEST BID AND TO
INSTEAD AWARD THEM BASED ON THE
THINGS THAT WE BELIEVE WILL
PROVIDE THE BEST VALUE TO THE
CITY.
AND AGAIN, YOU KNOW, I THINK
STAFF IS WORKING REALLY HARD TO
IMPLEMENT THIS.
&gt;&gt; I THINK ANY TIME YOU MAKE A
PRETTY BIG CHANGE LIKE THIS,
IT&apos;S GOING TO TAKE A LITTLE
TIME FOR THINGS TO KIND
OF LEVEL OUT FOR PEOPLE TO
ADJUST TO IT.
BUT AS FAR AS THE CONCERNS FROM
THE TRADE GROUP GOES, YOU KNOW,
IN MY VIEW AND FROM ALL THE
CONVERSATIONS I&apos;VE HAD IN THE
COMMUNITY
, WHAT WE HAVE NOW IS
A PROCESS THAT IS A LEVEL
PLAYING FIELD AND YOU KNOW,
INSTEAD OF JUST FOCUSING ON ONE
THING WHICH IS BOTTOM LINE
WHICH USUALLY IS A RACE TO THE
BOTTOM, YOU KNOW, WE ARE
PRIORITIZING A WHOLE BUNCH
OF THINGS THAT WILL DELIVER
QUALITY CONSTRUCTION AND CITY
PROJECTS.
SO I THINK I&apos;LL LEAVE IT AT
THAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE?
YES.
COMES FROM MY I APPRECIATE WHAT
WAS JUST SAID BUT I DISAGREE.
WE KEEP THROWING AROUND THE 70
PERCENT VOTING PERCENTAGE WHEN
WE HAD 14 PERCENT TURNOUT SO
LESS THAN 10 PERCENT OR ABOUT
10 PERCENT OF THE VOTERS
DECIDED ON THIS.
AND I THINK A LOT OF DIDN&apos;T
FULLY UNDERSTAND THE
RAMIFICATIONS OF PROPER THE
NEBULOUS WAY THAT WE AWARD
CONTRACTS THESE DAYS WILL
RESULT IN US PAYING MORE FOR
LESS AS WE GO FORWARD.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T THINK THERE WERE ANY
PROBLEMS WITH THE WAY WORK WAS
DONE PRIOR TO PROP EIGHT.
I THINK THAT THERE ARE OTHER
FORCES THAT PLAY A WILL THEN
RESPOND TO SAYING THAT THE LAST
MEETING ET MCKENSIE WAS AWARDED
A ONE POINT EIGHT MILLION
DOLLAR CONTRACT WITHOUT ANYBODY
RAISING QUESTION ABOUT THEIR
SAFETY RECORD OR ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
WHEREAS EARLIER THIS YEAR THEY
WERE DEEMED UNQUALIFIED TO BE
WORKING IN OUR COMMUNITY LAST
MEETING AT ONE POINT EIGHT
MILLION DOLLAR CONTRACT WAS
GIVEN TO THEM WITHOUT QUESTION.
SO I WILL JUST CONTINUE TO
HIGHLIGHT IRREGULARITIES THAT I
WITNESSED FROM MY SEAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU COUNCILMAN PRIOR
TWO POINTS.
FIRST, AS I&apos;VE POINTED OUT
BEFORE BUT I THINK BEARS
POINTING OUT AGAIN ANY TIME A
COUNCIL MEMBER TRIES TO DISMISS
THE WILL OF THE VOTERS HERE,
THIS BALLOT MEASURE WAS PASSED
BY THREE TIMES AS MANY VOTES AS
THE COUNCIL MEMBER WHO JUST
SPOKE RECEIVED AND MOST OF US
HERE AT THE TABLE RECEIVED SO
YOU KNOW, LET&apos;S LET&apos;S NOT
QUESTION, YOU KNOW, THE WILL
OF THE VOTERS.
I THINK THAT&apos;S REALLY NOT THE
RIGHT THING TO DO.
THE OTHER THING IS NOBODY
DECLARED MACKENZIE UNQUALIFIED
TO DO WORK IN THE CITY.
IT WAS SIMPLY A QUESTION
OF COMPARATIVE SAFETY PROFILE
AND SO I THINK IT&apos;S I THINK
WE&apos;VE GOT TO BE REALLY CAREFUL
WITH OUR WORDS HERE AND LET&apos;S,
YOU KNOW, HOLD TO THE FACTS AND
BE ACCURATE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE WISH TO SPEAK IN
COUNCIL, WINEBRENNER?
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
I KNOW THAT IT WAS FROM NOT
QUESTIONING THE WILL OF THE
VOTERS THAT I WAS SO WELCOME
AND WARMLY RECEIVED AT THIS
TABLE.
&gt;&gt; NO ONE QUESTION NO ONE
QUESTIONED THE WILL OF THE
VOTERS WHEN I GOT ELECTED, DID
THEY?
ALL RIGHT, LET&apos;S NOT LET&apos;S NOT
HAVE THIS KIND OF NONSENSE TALK
ABOUT VOTERS.
I THINK I COUNCILMAN RAM WHILE
HE WAS JUST POINTING OUT THAT
WHEN YOU SAY IT&apos;S THE
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY THE
COMMUNITY AND YOU HAVE FIFTY 70
PERCENT OR 15 PERCENT YOU HAVE
10 PERCENT.
SO THAT&apos;S NOT A MAJORITY BY ANY
COUNT.
IT&apos;S A MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE
WHO SHOWED UP IN A YOU KNOW I
MEAN GREAT THAT&apos;S HOW DEMOCRACY
WORKS BUT WE&apos;RE A
REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY AND SO
WE WERE PERFECTLY WELCOME TO TO
TO QUESTION ANYTHING THAT COMES
BEFORE US.
&gt;&gt; AND I QUESTION THIS AND I
WILL NOT SUPPORT IT.
OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS IT
SOUNDS LIKE WE NEED A ROLL CALL
VOTE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER.
&gt;&gt; JUST PLEASE.
YES, REMEMBER DISH OH I&apos;M SO
SORRY.
&gt;&gt; YES, THAT&apos;S MY GRISWOLD.
YES THAT&apos;S MURSAU.
YES IT&apos;S BERGRIN.
YES THAT&apos;S MY DENHA ABSENT
MAYOR TAYLOR ABSENT CUSTOMER
IRE.
YES.
COUNCILMAN ELSOM.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILMAN BRIGGS ABSENT MY
YES.
ROOM LOUI YES.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILMAN BRIGGS ABSENT MY
KAZMIR HAYNER NO MOTION CARRIES
ROOM LOUI YES.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU MR.
KAZMIR HAYNER NO MOTION CARRIES
HUTCHINSON AND ALSO THANK
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU MR.
KENNEDY FOR BEING WITH US
HUTCHINSON AND ALSO THANK
EARLIER THIS EVENING.
KENNEDY FOR BEING WITH US
&gt;&gt; OK, SO WE NOW COME TO A NOT
EARLIER THIS EVENING.
SO SHORT SERIES OF PUBLIC
&gt;&gt; OK, SO WE NOW COME TO A NOT
HEARINGS THIS EVENING.
SO SHORT SERIES OF PUBLIC
REMIND THE PUBLIC THAT PUBLIC
HEARINGS THIS EVENING.
HEARINGS ARE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
REMIND THE PUBLIC THAT PUBLIC
PUBLIC AND THE MEMBERS OF THE
HEARINGS ARE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
COMMUNITY TO SPEAK ON A MATTER
PUBLIC AND THE MEMBERS OF THE
SPECIFIC TO THAT PUBLIC HEARING
COMMUNITY TO SPEAK ON A MATTER
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
SPECIFIC TO THAT PUBLIC HEARING
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
THEY CAN SPEAK IN CHAMBERS OR
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
IF THEY ARE CALLING IN FROM
THEY CAN SPEAK IN CHAMBERS OR
HOME REMINDER TO PLEASE CALL
IF THEY ARE CALLING IN FROM
THE NUMBER ON THE SCREEN AND
HOME REMINDER TO PLEASE CALL
THEN ENTER MEETING EDINA&apos;S NINE
THE NUMBER ON THE SCREEN AND
FOUR TWO ONE TWO SEVEN THREE
THEN ENTER MEETING EDINA&apos;S NINE
TWO ONE FOUR EIGHT.
FOUR TWO ONE TWO SEVEN THREE
WHEN YOU COME TO THE PUBLIC
TWO ONE FOUR EIGHT.
HEARING IN WHICH YOU WISH TO
WHEN YOU COME TO THE PUBLIC
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
HEARING IN WHICH YOU WISH TO
AND IF YOU NEED ANY ASSISTANCE
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
WE WILL BE PLEASED TO PROVIDE
AND IF YOU NEED ANY ASSISTANCE
IT TO YOU ANDERSON.
WE WILL BE PLEASED TO PROVIDE
WITH EIGHT PUBLIC HEARINGS
IT TO YOU ANDERSON.
SOMETIMES THERE CAN BE A LITTLE
WITH EIGHT PUBLIC HEARINGS
CONFUSION CALLING IN.
SOMETIMES THERE CAN BE A LITTLE
SO FOR SOME REASON YOU CALL
CONFUSION CALLING IN.
INTO THE WRONG PUBLIC HEARING
SO FOR SOME REASON YOU CALL
YOU WILL NOT BE THE FIRST OR
INTO THE WRONG PUBLIC HEARING
LAST PERSON TO DO SO AND WE&apos;LL
YOU WILL NOT BE THE FIRST OR
MAKE SURE YOU GET TO THE RIGHT
LAST PERSON TO DO SO AND WE&apos;LL
ONE.
MAKE SURE YOU GET TO THE RIGHT
THE FIRST PUBLIC HEARING PUBLIC
ONE.
HEARING ONE IN AUDIENCE TO
THE FIRST PUBLIC HEARING PUBLIC
AMEND CHAPTER ONE TWELVE
HEARING ONE IN AUDIENCE TO
NONDISCRIMINATION SECTIONS NINE
AMEND CHAPTER ONE TWELVE
ONE FIVE ZERO NINE ONE FIVE ONE
NONDISCRIMINATION SECTIONS NINE
NINE ONE FIVE SIX AND NINE ONE
ONE FIVE ZERO NINE ONE FIVE ONE
FIVE NINE TITLE NINE OF THE
NINE ONE FIVE SIX AND NINE ONE
CODE OF THE CITY ANN ARBOR TO
FIVE NINE TITLE NINE OF THE
UPDATE DEFINITIONS OF GENDER
CODE OF THE CITY ANN ARBOR TO
EXPRESSION GENDER IDENTITY AND
UPDATE DEFINITIONS OF GENDER
SEXUAL ORIENTATION REORDER
EXPRESSION GENDER IDENTITY AND
DEFINITIONS BY DEFINITION
SEXUAL ORIENTATION REORDER
OF RELIGION TO INCLUDE
DEFINITIONS BY DEFINITION
PROHIBITION AGAINST RELIGIOUS
OF RELIGION TO INCLUDE
BASED HAIR AND HEAD COVERINGS
PROHIBITION AGAINST RELIGIOUS
DISCRIMINATION AND REMOVE A
BASED HAIR AND HEAD COVERINGS
REQUIREMENT THAT COMPLAINT BE
DISCRIMINATION AND REMOVE A
FILED WITHIN 180 DAYS.
REQUIREMENT THAT COMPLAINT BE
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
FILED WITHIN 180 DAYS.
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
IN CHAMBERS?
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
OK, SEEING NO ONE IS THERE
IN CHAMBERS?
ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO
OK, SEEING NO ONE IS THERE
PUBLIC HEARING ONE ONLINE MAYOR
ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO
PRO TEM?
PUBLIC HEARING ONE ONLINE MAYOR
I DON&apos;T SEE ANYONE ONLINE FOR
PRO TEM?
THIS HEARING SEEING NO ONE AT
I DON&apos;T SEE ANYONE ONLINE FOR
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
THIS HEARING SEEING NO ONE AT
PUBLIC HEARING TO RESOLUTION TO
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
IMPROVE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
PUBLIC HEARING TO RESOLUTION TO
EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE BETWEEN
IMPROVE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND
EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE BETWEEN
SARTORIUS BIO ANALYTICAL
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND
INSTRUMENTS.
SARTORIUS BIO ANALYTICAL
IS THERE ANYONE IN CHAMBERS WHO
INSTRUMENTS.
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
IS THERE ANYONE IN CHAMBERS WHO
PUBLIC HEARING?
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO DO SO,
PUBLIC HEARING?
PLEASE COME FORWARD EVENING
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO DO SO,
COUNCIL CHEMICALS IN PORTAGE
PLEASE COME FORWARD EVENING
CAPITAL PARTNERS, THE DEVELOPER
COUNCIL CHEMICALS IN PORTAGE
OF THE PROJECT JUST BACK FOR
CAPITAL PARTNERS, THE DEVELOPER
FOUR JUST TO REMIND EVERYBODY
OF THE PROJECT JUST BACK FOR
I&apos;M TIRED OF HEARING I THINK
FOUR JUST TO REMIND EVERYBODY
THIS IS ABOUT THE FOURTH TIME
I&apos;M TIRED OF HEARING I THINK
I&apos;VE REPEATED THESE THINGS BUT
THIS IS ABOUT THE FOURTH TIME
WE&apos;VE EFFECTIVELY CREATED OR
I&apos;VE REPEATED THESE THINGS BUT
CREATING A APPROXIMATELY 60
WE&apos;VE EFFECTIVELY CREATED OR
MILLION DOLLAR FACILITY AT THIS
CREATING A APPROXIMATELY 60
SITE.
MILLION DOLLAR FACILITY AT THIS
WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE TORN DOWN IN
SITE.
REMEDIATED A 1960S FUNCTIONALLY
WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE TORN DOWN IN
OBSOLESCENT BUILDING CREATING
REMEDIATED A 1960S FUNCTIONALLY
THREE HUNDRED NEW JOBS IN THE
OBSOLESCENT BUILDING CREATING
MARKETPLACE AND IN LOOKING TO
THREE HUNDRED NEW JOBS IN THE
MOVE FORWARD.
MARKETPLACE AND IN LOOKING TO
THIS IS A CRITICAL COMPONENT TO
MOVE FORWARD.
OUR WHOLE DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL
THIS IS A CRITICAL COMPONENT TO
THAT WE HAVE MOVED FORWARD
OUR WHOLE DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL
WITH.
THAT WE HAVE MOVED FORWARD
SO I APPRECIATE YOUR
WITH.
CONSIDERATION AGAIN THIS THANK
SO I APPRECIATE YOUR
YOU.
CONSIDERATION AGAIN THIS THANK
SO ANYONE ELSE IN CHAMBERS
YOU.
WHO&apos;D LIKE TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
SO ANYONE ELSE IN CHAMBERS
HEARING TO IS THERE ANYONE
WHO&apos;D LIKE TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
ONLINE WHO&apos;D LIKE TO SPEAK?
HEARING TO IS THERE ANYONE
&gt;&gt; OH, GO AHEAD.
ONLINE WHO&apos;D LIKE TO SPEAK?
&gt;&gt; SO IT LOOKS TO BE ONE MARTIN
&gt;&gt; OH, GO AHEAD.
HOUSE SPEAKER PRO TEM GRANT.
&gt;&gt; SO IT LOOKS TO BE ONE MARTIN
THANK YOU.
HOUSE SPEAKER PRO TEM GRANT.
MY NAME IS KEN GARBER AND I
THANK YOU.
WASN&apos;T GOING TO SPEAK BECAUSE
MY NAME IS KEN GARBER AND I
MAYOR TAYLOR INDICATED AT THE
WASN&apos;T GOING TO SPEAK BECAUSE
APRIL 4TH PUBLIC HEARING THAT
MAYOR TAYLOR INDICATED AT THE
THOSE WHO SPOKE ON THAT THAT
APRIL 4TH PUBLIC HEARING THAT
OCCASION WOULD NOT BE ALLOWED
THOSE WHO SPOKE ON THAT THAT
TO SPEAK TONIGHT ON THIS TOPIC
OCCASION WOULD NOT BE ALLOWED
BECAUSE IT WOULD BE A
TO SPEAK TONIGHT ON THIS TOPIC
CONTINUATION OF A PUBLIC
BECAUSE IT WOULD BE A
HEARING.
CONTINUATION OF A PUBLIC
BUT SINCE MR. MCCAUSLAND WHO
HEARING.
DID SPEAK BACK AND FORTH AT
BUT SINCE MR. MCCAUSLAND WHO
THAT HEARING SPOKE, I WONDER IF
DID SPEAK BACK AND FORTH AT
I COULD HAVE PERMISSION TO MAKE
THAT HEARING SPOKE, I WONDER IF
SOME COMMENTS.
I COULD HAVE PERMISSION TO MAKE
&gt;&gt; EVELYN POINTED OUT WE BROKE
SOME COMMENTS.
OUR RULES.
&gt;&gt; EVELYN POINTED OUT WE BROKE
GO FOR IT.
OUR RULES.
OK, I HAVE MY THREE MINUTES
GO FOR IT.
ANYWAY.
OK, I HAVE MY THREE MINUTES
THANK YOU ON SO YES, SARTORIUS
ANYWAY.
HAS A STRONG CORPORATE
THANK YOU ON SO YES, SARTORIUS
SUSTAINABILITY ETHIC.
HAS A STRONG CORPORATE
IT INTENDS TO BUILD WHO ARE
SUSTAINABILITY ETHIC.
LEED GOLD STANDARD AND PLANTS
IT INTENDS TO BUILD WHO ARE
TO OFFSET EMISSIONS.
LEED GOLD STANDARD AND PLANTS
BUT NONE OF THIS MITIGATES THE
TO OFFSET EMISSIONS.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM
BUT NONE OF THIS MITIGATES THE
THIS ENERGY HUNGRY BUILDING
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM
WHICH BASED ON THE COMPANY&apos;S
THIS ENERGY HUNGRY BUILDING
STATED ENERGY USE INTENSITY
WHICH BASED ON THE COMPANY&apos;S
OF 250 KILOMETERS PER SQUARE
STATED ENERGY USE INTENSITY
FOOT PER YEAR.
OF 250 KILOMETERS PER SQUARE
I CALCULATED FOUR THOUSAND ONE
FOOT PER YEAR.
HUNDRED SIXTY METRIC TONS CO2
I CALCULATED FOUR THOUSAND ONE
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS ANNUALLY
HUNDRED SIXTY METRIC TONS CO2
THAT MAY NOT BE RIGHT BUT
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS ANNUALLY
THAT&apos;S MY CALCULATION ON SO THE
THAT MAY NOT BE RIGHT BUT
COMPANY&apos;S CONTENTION THAT
THAT&apos;S MY CALCULATION ON SO THE
MUSTARD GAS BECAUSE THE AIR THE
COMPANY&apos;S CONTENTION THAT
ROOM TURNOVER IS CONSTANT IN
MUSTARD GAS BECAUSE THE AIR THE
THESE BUILDINGS DUE TO THE THE
ROOM TURNOVER IS CONSTANT IN
HIGH NUMBER OF FUME HOODS IN
THESE BUILDINGS DUE TO THE THE
THE LABORATORIES THEY&apos;RE THE
HIGH NUMBER OF FUME HOODS IN
CONSULTANT VERNIERS AT THE LAST
THE LABORATORIES THEY&apos;RE THE
HEARING THAT GEOTHERMAL AND AIR
CONSULTANT VERNIERS AT THE LAST
FORCE HEAT PUMPS WERE
HEARING THAT GEOTHERMAL AND AIR
IMPRACTICAL IN A BUILDING LIKE
FORCE HEAT PUMPS WERE
THIS BECAUSE THESE LABS OPERATE
IMPRACTICAL IN A BUILDING LIKE
TWENTY FOUR HOURS A DAY
THIS BECAUSE THESE LABS OPERATE
FUNCTIONING AT FULL AIRFLOW ALL
TWENTY FOUR HOURS A DAY
THE TIME THEY NEVER GO DOWN.
FUNCTIONING AT FULL AIRFLOW ALL
THEY NEVER HAVE AN OFF SEASON
THE TIME THEY NEVER GO DOWN.
ACTUALLY SEVERAL INNOVATIONS
THEY NEVER HAVE AN OFF SEASON
ARE NOW AVAILABLE TO REDUCE
ACTUALLY SEVERAL INNOVATIONS
FUME HOOD AIRFLOW SO THAT THEY
ARE NOW AVAILABLE TO REDUCE
NEED FOR COPS AND EXCHANGE
FUME HOOD AIRFLOW SO THAT THEY
EXCHANGES MINIMIZE THESE ALLOW
NEED FOR COPS AND EXCHANGE
MAJOR ENERGY SAVINGS.
EXCHANGES MINIMIZE THESE ALLOW
THESE INNOVATIONS INCLUDE
MAJOR ENERGY SAVINGS.
BATTERY VALVES WHICH REDUCE
THESE INNOVATIONS INCLUDE
AIRFLOW TO A MINIMUM WHEN THE
BATTERY VALVES WHICH REDUCE
HOODS ARE NOT IN USE TURNING
AIRFLOW TO A MINIMUM WHEN THE
DOWN THE AIRFLOW IN THE
HOODS ARE NOT IN USE TURNING
TEACHING LAMPS WHEN THEY&apos;RE NOT
DOWN THE AIRFLOW IN THE
OCCUPIED EXCUSE ME THE RESEARCH
TEACHING LAMPS WHEN THEY&apos;RE NOT
LABS PUTTING THE VENTILATION
OCCUPIED EXCUSE ME THE RESEARCH
SYSTEM INTO SO-CALLED VACANCY
LABS PUTTING THE VENTILATION
MODE HOOD HIBERNATION WHERE
SYSTEM INTO SO-CALLED VACANCY
VALVES CONTROL FUME
INDIVIDUALLY INSTEAD OF BANKS
OF HUMANS AS THEY NOW DO
DOUGLAS FUME HOODS WHERE
INSTEAD OF SENDING THE FUMES
OUTSIDE THEY RUN THROUGH THE
FILTER TO REMOVE CHEMICAL
VAPORS.
THE AIR IS THEN RECIRCULATED IN
THE BUILDING.
NOT ALL THESE SOLUTIONS CAN BE
USED IN ALL SITUATIONS BUT IF
THEY&apos;RE DESIGNED INTO THE
BUILDING THEY CAN SUBSTANTIALLY
REDUCE ITS ENERGY USE AND
REDUCE THE NEED FOR CONSTANT
AIR EXCHANGE AND RESULT HEATING
REQUIREMENTS.
WE KNOW IT IS POSSIBLE TO AVOID
GAS HEATING BECAUSE SUCH LARGE
BUILDINGS ARE STARTING TO GO UP
ELSEWHERE.
AT THE LAST HEARING I MENTIONED
THE INTEGRATED SCIENCE CENTER
AT CARLETON COLLEGE IN
MINNESOTA WHICH EMPLOYS
GEOTHERMAL.
ANOTHER EXAMPLE IS THE
INTEGRATIVE GENOMICS BUILDING,
THE LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL
LAB WHICH USES THE HEAT
RECOVERY CHILLER AND AIR FORCE
HEAT PUMP I GUESS TO CONCLUDE I
WOULD SAY I SUPPORT SARTORIUS
BUILDING HERE IN ANN ARBOR I
THINK WOULD BE AN IMPORTANT
ADDITION TO THE COMMUNITY IN
TERMS OF ECONOMIC BENEFIT AND
FRANKLY, YOU KNOW, I
COVERED THE BIOTECH INDUSTRY AS
A SCIENCE REPORTER AND I THINK
HIGHLY OF THIS COMPANY.
I THINK WE CAN DO BETTER.
I THINK THAT THE TAX ABATEMENTS
SHOULD BE CONDITIONED ON USING
GOING FULLY ELECTRIC IN THIS
BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, SIR.
ANYONE ELSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK
?
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS PHIL SANTUR WITH
ANOTHER SPARK.
I JUST WANT TO APPRECIATE
COUNCIL&apos;S CONSIDERATION OF THE
INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES EXEMPTION
FOR SARTORIALIST THIS EVENING.
THEY&apos;RE AN INTERNATIONAL FIRM
HAS BEEN STATED WHICH MEANS
THEY HAVE OPPORTUNITIES TO
INVEST AROUND THE WORLD AND
THEY&apos;RE GIVING PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT CONSIDERATION TO A
LOCATION IN ANN ARBOR WHICH I
THINK IS SOMETHING THAT WE NEED
TO UNDERSCORE.
AS WAS MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY,
THEY&apos;RE LOOKING AT REDEVELOPING
A FUNCTIONALLY OBSOLETE
PROPERTY RESEARCH PARK DRIVE,
ONE OF THE MAIN ENTRY POINTS
INTO ANN ARBOR AND THEY ARE A
GROWING BIOSCIENCE COMPANY THAT
ANN ARBOR HAS BUILT A HISTORIC
AND GROWING REPUTATION FOR
INTERCOMMUNITY.
SO I THINK WE WANT TO TRY AND
ENCOURAGE THAT THE PROJECT WILL
HAVE HUNDREDS OF EMPLOYEES WITH
A RANGE OF EMPLOYMENT AND NOT
ONLY THAT, BUT IT&apos;S BEEN STATED
THAT THE THE FACILITY IS LEED
CERTIFIED AND WILL BE USING
RENEWABLE ENERGY TO FORCE
OPERATIONS WE&apos;VE BEEN WORKING
FOR SOME TIME ON THE PROJECT
AND THE COMPANY, THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM AND THE
COMPANY HAVE BEEN OUTSTANDING
PARTNERS AT EVERY STEP OF THE
PROCESS.
ALSO WANTED TO RECOGNIZE CITY
STAFF FOR THEIR WORK ON THIS
EFFORT WHICH HAS INVOLVED A
SIGNIFICANT OUT OF THEIR TIME
AND EXPERTIZE.
DEREK DELACOURT LEONARD NICK
HUTCHINSON, CITY ADMINISTRATOR
HONY OSSI AND MANY OTHERS HAVE
PROVIDED A TIME NOT JUST ON
THIS REQUEST BUT ON THE PROJECT
OVERALL AND I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT WAS RECOGNIZED.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
CONSIDERATION THIS EVENING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE
?
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE FOR THIS HEARING.
OK, SO SEEING NO ONE ELSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING TO IS CLOSED
PUBLIC HEARING THREE IN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION TWO
63 OF CHAPTER 29 WATER RIGHTS
OF TITLE TWO OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
SO ANYONE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
IN PERSON FOR A PUBLIC HEARING
THREE MISUARI IS THERE ANYONE
ON THE PHONE?
I DON&apos;T SEE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE FOR THIS HEARING.
OK, SO SEEING NO ONE AND OTHER
PLACE PUBLIC HEARING THREE IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING FOR AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION 269
OF CHAPTER 29 STORM RATES
OF TITLE TWO OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY ANN ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ON THE PHONE?
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE FOR THIS HEARING.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO SEEING NO ONE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING FIVE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE FISCAL YEAR 2023 FEE
ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE COMMUNITY
SERVICES AREA IS THERE ANYONE
HERE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
CONCERNING PUBLIC HEARING FIVE
MABUCHI DO WE HAVE ANYONE ON
THE PHONE?
WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
THE LINE FOR THIS HEARING.
OK, THANK YOU.
NO ONE PUBLIC HEARING FIVE IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING SIX
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY THREE FEE
ADJUSTMENTS FOR PUBLIC SERVICES
AREA ENGINEERING SYSTEMS
PLANNING PUBLIC WORKS AND WATER
.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE IN CHAMBERS
WHO WISHES TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING BE BEDRI?
WE HAVE NO CALLERS ON THE LINE
FOR THIS HEARING.
OK, SO PUBLIC HEARING SIX IS
CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING SEVEN
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY THREE FEE
ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE IN CHAMBERS WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING AND MISS BEDRI, I HAVE
NO CALLERS ON THE LINE FOR THIS
HEARING.
OK, SO PUBLIC HEARING SEVEN IS
CLOSED.
I HAVE A FEELING WE MIGHT GET A
COUPLE FOR THIS ONE PUBLIC
HEARING EIGHT RESOLUTION TO
ADOPT AND ARBOR CITY BUDGET AND
RELATED PROPERTY TAX MILITARY
FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
IS THERE ANYONE IN CHAMBERS WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO DO SO
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
MISS BUJJI, DO WE HAVE ANY
CALLERS?
WE DO.
GREG PRATT YOU CAN ON MUTE YOUR
PHONE BY PRESSING STAR SIX.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
OH CAN YOU HEAR ME?
&gt;&gt; WE CAN CAN YOU?
OKAY GOOD GOOD EVENING.
MERRY COUNCIL.
I&apos;M GREG PRATT FOR THREE WEEKS
ARBOR AND A VOLUNTEER WITH
SURVIVOR SPEAK WE&apos;RE ASKING YOU
WHAT THE PROPOSED BUDGET FOR
YOU TODAY TO USE SOME OF THE
GENERAL FUNDS TO BRING BLACK
OWNED BUSINESSES DOWNTOWN
PROVIDING THAT SPACE IS LIKE AN
INCUBATOR WE THINK PROVIDING
BUSINESS FOR BLACK OWNED
BUSINESSES THAT ARE DEEPLY
REDUCED COSTS COULD GO A LONG
WAY TOWARD GETTING A PROGRAM
MUNICIPAL REPARATIONS WHAT ARE
WE REPAIRING?
WE BEGINNING TO PROCESS THE
MATERIAL TO REPAIR THE DAMAGE
OUR WHITE DOMINATED SOCIETY AND
LOCAL COMMUNITY HAVE DONE TO
THE PEOPLE WHO BUILT OUR
COUNTRY.
WE MEAN LITERALLY BUILT IT.
WE KNOW THE STATS.
WE KNOW THE OUTCOMES.
WE KNOW THE DISPARITIES THAT
EXIST.
WE KNOW THAT IN THE INNER
HARBOR HOUSING SUPPLY WAS
RESTRICTED FOR SO LONG THAT WE
ARE NOW DECADES BEHIND DEMAND
FOR HOUSING.
HERE&apos;S THE KEY PIECE OF THAT
DEMAND AT EACH LEVEL
OF AFFORDABILITY ZERO INCOME TO
MARKET RATE, MEDIAN INCOME
LEVEL WE ALSO KNOW THAT IN
ORDER TO GET HOUSING FOR FOLKS
MAKE 40 OR LESS PER YEAR WE
NEED TO DIRECTLY INVEST IN IT
LIKE WE&apos;RE DOING WITH OUR
HOUSING KNOWLEDGE.
SO THANKS TO OUR RESIDENTS WHO
VOTED VOTED FOR THE MILLAGE IN
2020 THAT IS A GOOD STEP TO
TAKE AND WE&apos;RE SEEING TANGIBLE
RESULTS ALREADY WITH THAT
INVESTMENT BUT IT&apos;S NOT ENOUGH.
SO WHY SHOULD WE IMPLEMENT
REPARATIONS AT THE LOCAL
MUNICIPAL LEVEL?
WE CANNOT WAIT FOR THE GRIDLOCK
IN DC TO ENTANGLE ITSELF.
WE SHOULD STRIVE TO CHANGE
LEGISLATION AND PRECEDENT
OF THE STATE AND FEDERAL LEVELS
OF GOVERNMENT THAT WORKS THE
PUTS IT IN A RECENT ARTICLE IN
MICHIGAN LAW REVIEW TITLED
MUNICIPAL REPARATIONS
CONSIDERATIONS AND
CONSTITUTIONALITY REPARATIONS
SHOULD NOT BE CONFINED BY
ANTICLINE CLASSIFICATION
APPROACH THAT STIFLES HOPE
OF REMEDIATING STRUCTURAL
RACISM.
HOWEVER, WE SHOULD NOT LET
PRESIDENT LEGISLATION AT THE
STATE AND FEDERAL LEVEL STOP US
FROM ACTING LOCALLY LIKE WE&apos;VE
DONE WITH THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
WHILE WE CANNOT SOLVE THE
ENTIRE HOUSING CRISIS WITH
DIRECT INVESTMENT IN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TO PEOPLE MAKING ZERO
TO 40 YEARS WE CAN DO OUR PART.
WE DID THAT IN 2020 AND I&apos;M
GRATEFUL WE LIVE IN A CITY THAT
SUPPORTS INVESTMENT IN OUR
FELLOW WORKING CLASS CITIZENS
OF ALL STRIPES.
IF WE CAN FIGURE OUT A WAY TO
DO THAT OUR PART IN FINDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WE CAN ALSO
FIGURE OUT A WAY TO START A
PROGRAM OF REPARATIONS FOR
AMERICAN DESCENDANTS OF SLAVES
AND FREED PERSONS.
LET&apos;S TRY IT OUT BY SUPPORTING
INITIATIVES THAT WILL EMPOWER
BLACK BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
OWNERSHIP PERHAPS A PARTNERSHIP
OF SORTS WITH THE FORTHCOMING
ABBERLINE ARTSPACE DEVELOPMENT
ON FOURTH AND CATHERINE, I LOOK
FORWARD TO HEARING YOUR
THOUGHTS.
THANKS FOR YOUR TIME.
LOOK FOR SURVIVORS SPEAK ON
FACEBOOK, INSTAGRAM AND
SURVIVOR SPEAK INFO ON THE WEB.
WE WILL ALSO BE COVERING THIS
ON ESPN OR DOT COM WHICH IS A
NEW LOCAL POLITICS AND OUTREACH
NEWSLETTER I PUBLISH EVERY
SUNDAY 10:00 A.M. ON SUBSECT
SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE FREE
DELIVERED TO YOUR SUNDAY
MORNING EMAIL INBOX.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
FOR YOUR SERVICE ON COUNCIL.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE NATIVE SPEAKERS
ON THE PHONE CALL OR WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN ONE SIX
THREE DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT YOU
CAN PRESS STAR SIX MUTE YOUR
PHONE CALLER ONE SIX THREE GO
AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; HELLO CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
FIRST I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
YOUR PREVIOUS VOTE AGAINST
FUNDING THE DOOR CALL INSTEAD
PUTTING TAXPAYER DOLLARS TOWARD
MORE IMPORTANT CITY PRIORITIES
SUCH AS THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND PROTECTING OUR MOST
VULNERABLE CITIZENS.
I AM A LIFELONG MICHIGAN
RESIDENT THIRTY A YEAR AND
ARBOR EIGHT YOU&apos;RE THEM GRAD
MOTHER OF FOUR U OF M KIDS WHO
VOLUNTEER IN THIS COMMUNITY ONE
OF WHOM IS A FIRST GRADE
TEACHER IN ANN ARBOR REGARDING
FUNDING AND ANOTHER DIFFICULT
IT IS NECESSARY TO REITERATE
THAT THEY ARE BETTER PLACES TO
SPEND MONEY.
FOR EXAMPLE OUR SCHOOLS WE ARE
LACKING GREATLY NEEDED IN
CLASSROOM SERVICES FOR THE MANY
AT RISK CHILDREN.
OUR SCHOOLS AND TEACHERS NEED
OUR SUPPORT AS THEY WORK
TIRELESSLY TO MEET TODAY&apos;S
CHALLENGES AND EDUCATE EVERY
CHILD TO BE A KIND RESPONSIBLE
CITIZEN OF OUR COMMUNITY IN THE
WORLD.
SUPPORTING OUR SCHOOLS AND OUR
CHILDREN MAKES OUR NEIGHBOR A
BETTER PLACE.
THE SAME THING CANNOT BE SAID
TO THE DEBACLE WHICH DIMINISHES
OUR WILDLIFE AND ENJOYMENT
OF NATURE.
THE JOURNAL IS NOT JUST
FINANCIALLY WASTEFUL BUT IT
ALSO SENDS A HARMFUL MESSAGE TO
OUR CHILDREN AND OPPOSES WHAT
THIS COMMUNITY STANDS FOR AND
HARBORS A FORWARD THINKING
COMMUNITY DEDICATED TO
REALIZING THE CHANGE THAT WE
WISH TO SEE AS A COMMUNITY WE
HAVE ALWAYS DRIVEN FROM HIGH
MORAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS A
PART OF THIS VALUE IN OUR PARKS
AND WILDLIFE AND INCREASING OUR
ABILITY TO ENJOY ALL PEACE AND
TRANQUILITY THEY PROVIDE.
I&apos;M SADDENED WHEN I LOOK AROUND
AND SEE GREEN SPACES
DISAPPEARING.
IT SEEMS WE ARE DIVERGING FROM
OUR HISTORY OF THE TOWN
DEDICATED TO A NAME FOR ITS
NATURAL BEAUTY
.
IT MAKES ME SAD FOR THE
WILDLIFE THAT IS INCREASINGLY
BEING FORCED OUT OF ITS NATURAL
HABITAT.
WE ARE A COMMUNITY WHO CLAIMS
TO BE DEDICATED TO THE WORLD
HEALTH AND TO THE HEALTH OF OUR
NATURAL SPACES AND YET CLOSING
PURPOSE TO FAMILIES AND SENDING
IN SHARP SHOOTERS TO KILL
WILDLIFE IS THE ANTITHESIS
OF THOSE VALUES.
THE HEALTHY MESSAGE TO OUR
CHILDREN IS THAT WE WILL FIND
WAYS TO COEXIST IN OUR
ENVIRONMENT AND WE CAN PURSUE
RATIONAL, RESPONSIBLE
APPROACHES TO ISSUES THAT YOUR
CALL IS NEITHER RATIONAL NOR
RESPONSIBLE.
CITING DOWN ON THE CITY OF AN
ARBOR&apos;S WEBSITE WAIT BUFFALO
ESTIMATED THE CALLS FROM 2017
TO 2000 NINETEEN DECREASE THE
DEER POPULATION IN WORDS ONE IN
TWO FROM APPROXIMATELY 450 TO
230.
HOWEVER, NO SCIENTIFIC
CORRESPONDING DECREASE IN DEER
RELATED VEHICLE CRASHES.
WE&apos;VE SEEN MORE FIFTY SIX DEER
RELATED CRASHES IN 2017 AND
FIFTY TWO NINETEEN AND THIS IS
THE MOST RECENT DATA PROVIDED
IN OUR WEBSITE.
GIVEN THE DATA I CANNOT FIND
ANY JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUED
CALLS BECAUSE THEY HAVE NOT
BEEN EFFECTIVE IN ANY GOAL
ASIDE FROM SPENDING SEVERAL
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS, YOU HAVE DEDICATED
MONEY AND TIME TO ANALYZING THE
FREQUENCY OF COLLISIONS IN
DIFFERENT PLACES THROUGHOUT AND
OVER AND THEREFORE LET&apos;S TAKE
THE RESPONSIBLE AND HUMANE
APPROACH OF INCREASING FENCING
SIGNS.
THIRTY SECOND STRING BRUSH AND
ROADWAYS AND DECREASING SPEED
LIMITS IN THOSE AREAS AFFECTED
CORNELL STUDY CENTERS FENCING
COMBINED WITH UNDERPASSES AND
OVERPASSES AS APPROPRIATE IS
THE ONLY BROADLY ACCEPTED
METHOD THAT IS THEORETICALLY
SOUND AND PROVEN TO BE
EFFECTIVE.
IN CLOSING, I DO NOT SUPPORT
ANOTHER VEHICLE SPEND FUNDS ON
PROGRAMS THAT PROMOTE A MORE
EARTH CONSCIOUS THOUSAND
DISPLAY LESS VIOLENT IMAGE FOR
OUR CHILDREN AND COMMUNITY.
HUMANS ARE BUT ONE PIECE OF THE
PUZZLE IN NATURE IS ALSO
CRITICAL AND A MOST ENJOYABLE
PIECE.
THE FABRIC OF OUR COMMUNITY IS
STRENGTHENED BY EMBRACING
COMPASSION.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; GOODBYE POLLUTION.
I&apos;M EXCEEDINGLY GRATEFUL FOR
YOUR SERVICE TO THIS COMMUNITY
AND HARD WORK.
I HOPE THAT YOU WILL REJECT YET
ANOTHER CALL AND THEREBY
SUPPORT THE WELL-BEING OF AND
OVER OUR NATURAL AREAS AND OUR
WILDLIFE.
THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO
SPEAK.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU CALLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER AND AGAIN THREE,
FOUR OR FIVE PRESS SIX ON YOUR
PHONE.
GO AHEAD AND HELLO MY NAME IS
KITTY CAT.
I LIVE IN THE FIFTH WARD AND
DECEMBER 16TH TWENTY NINETEEN A
RESOLUTION WAS SPONSORED BY AND
BANNISTER AND JACK EATEN AND
PASSED BY CITY COUNCIL.
IT IS ENTITLED RESOLUTION TO
SUPPORT CENTER OF THE CITY
INTERIM USE AND LONG TERM
PLANNING FOR THE CENTER OF THE
CITY LIBRARY PROPERTY.
I AM GOING TO READ ONE OF THE
RESOLVED CLAUSES FROM THAT
RESOLUTION THE SECOND RESOLVE
CLAUSE SAYS RESOLVED THAT THE
REVENUE FROM THE LIBRARY LANE
SURFACE PARKING WILL HELP TO
FUND THE CENTER OF THE CITY
IMPROVEMENT.
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR WILL
WORK WITH THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY TO
RECOVER OR REPLACE THE REVENUE
FOR THIS PURPOSE STARTING ON
NOVEMBER SIX TWENTY EIGHTEEN
THE VALUE OF THE LIBRARY
SURFACE PARKING WILL BE BASED
ON THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITIES ANNOUNCED HER DEUM
VALUE OF EIGHT HUNDRED SEVENTY
FIVE DOLLARS SIX DAYS PER WEEK
.
IF YOU CALCULATE THE TOTAL IT
ADDS UP TO OVER 900 THOUSAND
DOLLARS AS OF NOW AND YET THE
CITY HAS CONTRIBUTED ONLY FORTY
THOUSAND HOURS TO THE CENTER
OF THE CITY AND THERE IS NOT
EVEN ONE DOLLAR IN THIS
PROPOSED BUDGET.
IT IS TIME THE CITY KEPT ITS
PROMISE TO THE CITIZENS OF ANN
ARBOR AND TO THIS CHARTER
AMENDMENT.
AND ONE MORE THING EARLIER IN
THIS MEETING COUNCIL MEMBER
EYER SAID THAT WE SHOULDN&apos;T
QUESTION THE WILL OF THE
VOTERS.
WELL THEN LET&apos;S RESPECT THE
WILL OF THE VOTERS WHO PASSED
PROPOSAL A AND KEEP OUR WORD TO
THOSE VOTERS.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, MAYOR.
FULL TIME I DON&apos;T SEE ANY OTHER
CALLERS WITH THEIR HANDS UP.
&gt;&gt; HEY, THANK YOU, MISS BEDRI.
I&apos;M SEEING OTHER CALLERS.
&gt;&gt; THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
MAYOR SORRY I DO HAVE A OH OK.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT CLOSED.
JUST KIDDING.
NEXT SPEAKER PLEASE CALL HER
THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN SIX
FOUR FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
YES.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, GO AHEAD.
MY NAME IS KATHY BORRUS.
I LIVE AT ONE SEVEN SIX
CHARLTON IN THE FIFTH WARD
MAYOR PRO TEM CITY COUNCIL AND
ANN ARBOR NEIGHBORS.
THE BUDGET AS PROPOSED HAS NO
LINE ITEM FOR THE CENTER OF THE
CITY COMMON ZERO DOLLARS
NOTHING.
THIS IS SURPRISING BECAUSE
PROPOSITION EIGHT WAS PASSED
HANDILY BUT ANIBA VOTERS ALMOST
THREE AND A HALF YEARS AGO AS
THE WOMAN WHO SPOKE BEFORE ME
SAID WE SHOULD RESPECT WHAT THE
VOTERS SAID OH HERE THEY THREE
AND A HALF YEARS AGO THEY
OVERWHELMINGLY PASSED
PROPOSITION EIGHT THE BALLOT
LANGUAGE MADE NO MENTION OF HOW
THE CENTER OF THE CITY WOULD BE
FUNDED BUT I THINK IT WOULD BE
REASONABLE TO ASSUME THAT MOST
VOTERS EXPECTED THIS CITY
PROJECT TO HAVE SOME CITY
FUNDING.
AND SO I URGE YOU TO ADD AT
LEAST 75000 OR 100000 DOLLARS
TO THIS BUDGET FOR TABLES,
CHAIRS, PLANTING AND TEMPORARY
RESTROOMS FOR THE CENTER OF THE
CITY SO THAT EVERYONE CAN BEGIN
TO ENJOY THIS SPACE AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
REMEMBER TOO THAT MANY UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS WELL
AS MARKET RATE HOUSING ARE
PLANNED FOR THE DOWNTOWN AREA
IN THE NEXT FEW YEARS.
PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THESE
DEVELOPMENTS WILL NEED A PLACE
THAT IS OPEN, GREEN AND PUBLIC
,A PLACE TO GET OUTDOORS,
ENJOY TREES AND FLOWERS, ENJOY
A FALAFEL OR AN ICE CREAM CONE
AND THE COMPANY OF OTHER PEOPLE
.
SO I URGE YOU TONIGHT TO ADD TO
THE PROPOSED BUDGET A
REASONABLE AMOUNT OF FUNDING
FOR THE CENTER OF THE CITY
AGAIN PLEASE RESPECT THE WILL
OF THE VOTERS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MISS BUDGET.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
CALLER THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
AND FOR SIX FOR CRESTAR ANSWER
YOUR PHONE CALLER FOUR SIX FOUR
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
?
CAN YOU HEAR ME NOW?
I&apos;M SORRY.
&gt;&gt; YES WE CAN.
OK THANK YOU.
OK SO TWO THINGS I WANT TO
ADDRESS FIRST OF ALL I STRONGLY
SUPPORT APPROVING THE 700000
AMOUNT FOR A COMPREHENSIVE
REVIEW AND UPDATE OF THE CITY&apos;S
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHAT WE USED
TO CALL THE MASTER PLAN THAT
ADMINISTRATED THE ADMINISTRATOR
HE PUT INTO THE BUDGET AND HE
STATED WHEN HE PRESENTED THE
BUDGET OUR PLAN IS VERY BADLY
OUT OF DATE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
UPDATING IT I THINK EVERY FIVE
YEARS AND IT&apos;S THEN IT&apos;S NOT
BEEN TEN YEARS BUT YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S LIKE SEVEN OR EIGHT YEARS
SO WE&apos;RE NOT IN STATE
COMPLIANCE.
THIS IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
COMMUNITY DEMOGRAPHICS ARE
CHANGING.
THE VALUES ARE CHANGING IN THE
COMMUNITY.
THIS NEEDS TO HAPPEN AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE AND IT NEEDS TO
INCLUDE WIDE AND DEEP PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION ACROSS ALL
SECTORS OF THE COMMUNITY ALL
AGES, ALL INCOME LEVELS, ALL
ETHNICITIES, ALL NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE FACILITATORS NEED TO
ACTUALLY GO OUT INTO THOSE
COMMUNITIES TO ENGAGE PEOPLE.
PLEASE DON&apos;T TRY TO WHITTLE
AWAY AT THE SEVEN HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLAR FIGURE IF MR.
TONY THINKS THAT&apos;S WHAT IT
TAKES, THAT&apos;S WHAT YOU NEED TO
APPROVE, PLEASE.
THE OTHER ITEM IS ALSO
SOMETHING THAT I BELIEVE WE ARE
OUT OF COMPLIANCE.
IT&apos;S BEEN NEARLY FOUR YEARS
SINCE THE VOTER APPROVED BALLOT
PROPOSAL WE DESIGNATED THE
SO-CALLED LIBRARY AS PUBLIC
SUPPORT CIVIC SPACE THAT IS NOW
IN OUR CITY CHARTER BY
CONTINUING TO ALLOW THE DENHA
TO USE IT AS A PARKING LOT AND
TO WITHHOLD ANY MINIMAL FUNDING
FOR MINOR IMPROVEMENTS TO MAKE
IT COMFORTABLE FOR PEOPLE TO
HANG OUT THERE MEANS WE ARE NOT
IN COMPLIANCE WITH OUR OWN CITY
CHARTER.
IT&apos;S JUST UNCONSCIONABLE.
I KNOW THERE ARE STILL PEOPLE
IN THE COMMUNITY WHO CANNOT
ACCEPT THAT THAT BALLOT
PROPOSAL I HEAR THEM ONLINE ALL
THE TIME ON SOCIAL MEDIA.
IT&apos;S LIKE IT&apos;S LIKE THE TRUMP
IS YOU KNOW A LOT OF PEOPLE
CAN&apos;T BELIEVE JOE BIDEN WON BUT
YOU KNOW WHAT HE DID AND YOU
KNOW WHAT A LOT OF PEOPLE CAN&apos;T
BELIEVE THAT PROP EIGHT PASSED
BUT GUESS WHAT IT DID AND WE
ARE OUT OF COMPLIANCE AND I
WOULD PLEASE ASK YOU TO GET US
INTO COMPLIANCE DESIGNATED SOME
FUNDS DOESN&apos;T HAVE TO BE
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS BUT WE NEED
INTERNET ACCESS THERE.
WE NEED A PUBLIC RESTROOM.
WE NEED TABLES, FURNISHINGS,
CHAIRS, ET CETERA, ET CETERA AT
LEAST NOW FOR A START WE CAN
WORK FOR A START AND THEN WE
CAN WORK ON SOMETHING BETTER.
IT&apos;S JUST IT&apos;S I WISH MORE
OF YOU CAN UNDERSTAND THAT IT&apos;S
ABOUT A PROPOSAL.
THE PAST IS IN OUR CITY CHARTER
AND YOU KNOW, LOOK AT MATT
ALTRUSA.
HE&apos;S A GREAT EXAMPLE
OF SOMEBODY WHO WAS SO OPPOSED
TO IT BUT NOW HE UNDERSTANDS
IT&apos;S IN OUR CHARTER SO HE WANTS
TO MAKE THE BEST OF IT.
HE&apos;S DOING WHATEVER HE CAN TO
MAKE THAT HAPPEN.
HE BROUGHT LITTLE SADIE
TO AN
EVENT FOR EARTHSEA.
&gt;&gt; YOU PLEASE FOLLOW THAT
ALTURAS EXAMPLE.
THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVE BEEN
NAYSAYERS ABOUT THIS AND THANK
YOU FOR LISTENING TO ME CALL
HER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN SEVEN THREE THREE.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT STAR SIX
TO ON YOUR PHONE CALLER SEVEN
THREE THREE DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
CALLER 790 RESCORED NELSON ONE
OF THE LEADERS OF CENTERS THE
CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH PUBLIC
SAFETY CITIZENS FOR MENTAL
HEALTH AND PUBLIC SAFETY.
MY GREETING TO YOU IS AND HOW
ARE THE CHILDREN OUR GROUP
ORIGINALLY SUPPORTED AN
APPROPRIATION OF FIVE MILLION
SEPARATE PROGRAMS SERVING YOUNG
PEOPLE.
THIS INVESTMENT WOULD YIELD A
HIGHER FUTURE BENEFITS THAN ANY
OTHER OPTION.
IT IS ALSO AN IMPORTANT STEP
TOWARDS GREATER EQUITY.
&gt;&gt; THE NEED FOR MORE SERVICES
FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH IS
RECOGNIZED VIRTUALLY EVERYWHERE
EXCEPT IN THE INNER CITY BUDGET
.
THE EVIDENCE CONTINUES TO MOUNT
JUST A FEW DAYS AGO OUT FRONT
PAGE HEADLINE IN THE NEW YORK
TIMES PROCLAIMED AND I QUOTE
IT&apos;S LIFE OR DEATH US TEENAGERS
FACE A MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS
RECOGNIZING THE REALITIES
OF BUDGET ADJUSTMENT AT THIS
STAGE WE NOW RECOMMEND THAT ONE
OR MORE COUNCIL MEMBERS PROPOSE
A BUDGET AMENDMENT THAT WOULD
APPROPRIATE ONE POINT FIVE
BILLION FOR SOCIAL SUPPORTS FOR
CHILDREN AND THEIR FAMILIES.
THESE PROGRAMS SHOULD NOT BE
MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT
PROGRAMS BUT RATHER HEALTH AND
WELLNESS ACTIVITIES.
THE GOALS ARE TO DECREASE
ANXIETY, DEPRESSION, SELF-HARM,
ISOLATION, SUICIDE AND
RECREATIONAL DRUG USE AND
INCREASE PROSOCIAL ACTIVITIES
FOR YOUTH AND FAMILIES.
THE CITY WOULD PROVIDE
PROGRAMING DIRECTLY BY THE
PARKS RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
MUCH WOULD BE DELIVERED BY
CONTRACTORS.
THESE CONTRACTORS MIGHT INCLUDE
BUT CERTAINLY NOT BE LIMITED TO
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS SUCH AS
PEACE NEIGHBORHOODS.
BUT COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK
NONPROFITS SUCH AS THE NEUTRAL
ZONE AND THE DEPARTMENT OF THE
ANN ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN OUR
VIEW A LOGICAL SOURCE TO FUND A
RECOMMENDED MISSION IS THE
CITY&apos;S REVENUE FROM THE COUNTY
MENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
NETWORK.
HOWEVER, APPROPRIATING THE
NEEDED FUNDS IS THE IMPORTANT
THING, NOT THE SOURCE OF THE
FUNDS.
I DO WANT TO NOTE WE APPRECIATE
THE EARMARKING 200000 OF OUR
FUNDS FOR THE PARK SPACE TRAUMA
PROGRAMS.
WE ALSO APPRECIATE RECOMMENDED
APPROPRIATION FROM THE
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX OF THIRTY
FIVE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED
THIRTY ONE.
&gt;&gt; WE WOULD NOTE THAT ARE SOME
235 THOUSAND DOLLARS EQUALS
ZERO POINT ZERO FOUR PERCENT
OF THE SUM OF THE CITY
ADMINISTRATORS AND BUDGET ARPA
AND MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX IS
FOUR CENTS OF EACH ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS APPROPRIATE THAT THANK
YOU FROM THANK YOU.
I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO REMIND OUR
MEMBERS IN CHAMBERS THANK YOU
MR. NELSON THAT WE ARE STILL
REQUIRED TO WEAR MASKS DURING
COUNCIL MEETINGS.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COLORS?
LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
OH YES I DO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN YES.
THANK YOU.
THERE IS MONEY IN THE BUDGET
FOR THE SO-CALLED CENTER OF THE
CITY.
MR. HONY IN HIS WISDOM PUT
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
TOWARDS LIBERTY PLAZA WHICH IS
PART OF THE SO-CALLED CENTER
OF THE CITY.
I&apos;M THANKFUL FOR THAT MR. DE
HONY THAT YOU PUT THAT MONEY
THERE BECAUSE LIBERTY PLAZA
SEEMS TO BE JUST AN
AFTERTHOUGHT WHEN IT COMES TO
ALL THE DELIBERATION ABOUT WHAT
TO DO WITH THE LIBRARY LOT.
YOU KNOW, ONE PROPOSAL A
PROPONENTS WERE PUSHING
PROPOSAL IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
THERE WERE PROMISES MADE TO
RAISE FUNDS FOR ANYTHING THAT
WOULD BE PUT ON THE LIBRARY
LOT.
BUT HERE WE ARE THREE AND A
HALF YEARS LATER WITH MM.
MAYBE 50000 DOLLARS RAISED BY
MR. WILHELM AND AND IT SEEMS
LIKE MR. HATHAWAY HAS TOTALLY
ABANDONED ANYTHING TO DO WITH
THE SO-CALLED CENTER OF THE
CITY.
BUT YOU KNOW THESE PEOPLE
PROMISED THAT THERE WOULD BE A
LOT OF MONEY RAISED BY NOW IN
ORDER TO HAVE A CELEBRATION
OF THE CITY&apos;S 200 YEAR
ANNIVERSARY IN 2024.
BUT THEY ARE SO FAR AWAY FROM
THEIR GOALS SO I&apos;M I&apos;M FOR
PUTTING RESOURCES, BATHROOMS,
WI-FI ONTO LIBERTY PLAZA I THAT
IS THE PARK THAT WE HAVE ON
THAT BLOCK AND IT SHOULD BE
FUNDED BEFORE ANY TAXPAYER
MONEY IS SPENT ON THE LIBRARY.
A LOT.
AND ALSO I&apos;M KIND
OF DISAPPOINTED THAT THERE WAS
NO MONEY FOR DEAR CALL.
I&apos;M HOPING THAT ANN ARBOR
DOESN&apos;T EXPERIENCE MORE DEER
TICKS.
WE SALT SO HOPEFULLY THERE IS A
DEER COUNT AND IF WE SEE AN
EXCESS OF DEER THAT IN NEXT
YEAR&apos;S BUDGET OR THE YEAR AFTER
THAT WE RECONSIDER HAVING A
DEER CALL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU
.
ADAM GOODMAN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YEAH, HI.
I JUST WANT TO ADD ON TO WHAT
MR. VASQUEZ JUST SAID BY
READING DIRECTLY FROM AN ONLINE
ARTICLE IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
ENTITLED WHO WILL PAY FOR
INTROVERTS DOWNTOWN CENTRAL
PARK.
THIS IS STARTING WITH A QUOTE
FROM BILL HATHAWAY QUOTE MOST
DOWNTOWN PARKS WE&apos;VE LOOKED AT
HAVE SIGNIFICANT SUPPORT FROM
PRIVATE DONORS, BOTH
INDIVIDUALS AND BUSINESSES.
HE SAID AT THE TIME WE EXPECT
TO WORK THROUGH THE PLANNING
PROCESS AND DESIGN ISSUES AND
RAISE FUNDS STARTING IN 2019
WITH THE GOAL OF DEDICATING A
NEW PARK AND CIVIC CENTER TO
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
WHY THAT DATE 2024 IS IN OUR
BICENTENNIAL AND QUOTE FRANK
WILHEM, ANOTHER RESIDENT WHO
WORKED ON THE CAMPAIGN VOWED
LAST YEAR TO PUT HIS ENERGY
INTO RAISING COMMUNITY
DONATIONS TO FUND THE PARK.
SUCH COMMENTS VOTERS APPROVED
IT.
HE SAID RECENTLY HE STILL WANTS
TO DO SO IF THERE&apos;S A CONCEPT
TO PRESENT TO DONORS THAT&apos;S
STILL BEING WORKED OUT THROUGH
THE TASK FORCE PROCESS, ALLEN
HABER, ANOTHER LEADER OF THE
CENTRAL PARK CAMPAIGN, SAID
LAST YEAR THE PARK&apos;S COMMENTS
COULD BE FUNDED IN A WAY THAT&apos;S
NEUTRAL IN TERMS OF IMPACT ON
THE CITY&apos;S GENERAL FUND BUDGET.
OK, I&apos;M GOING TO STOP READING
THE POINT HERE IS THAT NO, THE
VOTERS WERE WE&apos;RE NOT PRESENTED
WITH INFORMATION LEAVE THEM TO
EXPECT THAT THE CITY WOULD PUT
SIGNIFICANT FUNDING INTO THIS
PROJECT ESPECIALLY BEFORE A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF PRIVATE
FUNDING HAD BEEN RAISED.
SO SO I AGREE WITH MR. BECKA&apos;S
UPGRADING LIBERTY PLAZA IS A
GREAT IDEA BUT FUNDING TO
DEVELOP A PARK OR WHATEVER ON
THE LIBRARY LOT SHOULD NOT
HAPPEN AT LEAST NOT UNTIL THERE
IS A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
OF PRIVATE FUNDING AND A PLAN
FOR THAT MATTER.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MAYOR PRO TEM.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE FOR THIS HEARING.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU MISS BEDRI.
I&apos;M SEEING NO OTHER CALLERS.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
COULD I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE COUNCIL MINUTES
FROM OUR REGULAR SESSION
MEETING OF APRIL 18TH 2022 MOVE
FROM OUR DESH SECONDED BY
CATTERMOLE.
&gt;&gt; ANY DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OPPOSE MOTION CARRIES.
WE&apos;LL HAVE OUR FIRST SECOND
READINGS A READING OF ORDINANCE
.
THIS IS B ONE AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER ONE
OF NONDISCRIMINATION SECTIONS
NINE ONE FIVE ZERO NINE ONE
FIVE ONE NINE ONE FIVE SIX AND
NINE ONE FIVE NINE TITLE NINE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR TO UPDATE DEFINITIONS
OF GENDER EXPRESSION, GENDER
IDENTITY AND SEXUAL ORIENTATION
REORDERED DEFINITIONS OUR
DEFINITION OF RELIGION TO
INCLUDE PROHIBITION AGAINST
RELIGIOUS BASED HAIR AND HEAD
COVERINGS, DISCRIMINATION AND
TO REMOVE REQUIREMENT THAT THE
COMPLAINT BE FILED WITHIN 180
DAYS.
COUNCIL RONALDSON
IT LOOKS LIKE
I&apos;M THE OF THE THREE SPONSORS
OF THIS ORDINANCE.
I&apos;M THE ONLY ONE HERE SO I
THINK THAT WE SAID QUITE A LOT
AT THE FIRST READING OF US
ORDINANCE MAYOR PRO TEM WE NEED
A MOTION OH OH GOSH I&apos;M SO
SORRY I THOUGHT WE HAD ONE
GRISWOLD WELL DENHA MY
APOLOGIES SORRY.
CONCERNED SINCE HE&apos;S BEEN YOUR
TIME AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
OH SORRY I GET CONFUSED.
YEAH I JUST I JUST WANT TO SAY
THAT THIS IS THIS IS ONE OF THE
MORE INTERESTING TYPES OF WORK
THAT HAPPENS THAT THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION I KNOW THAT
THE PROCEDURAL CHANGES WERE
VERY WELL THOUGHT OUT AND
DISCUSSED THOUGHTFULLY AND
THESE CHANGES ARE JUST MORE
OF OUR COMMUNITY MOVING IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION AND CONTEMPLATE
DOING WAYS IN WHICH PEOPLE ARE
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST AND
TREATED UNFAIRLY AND TRYING TO
TRYING TO IMAGINE A COMMUNITY
WHERE THAT ISN&apos;T HAPPENING.
I LOOK FORWARD TO US PASSING A
SECOND READING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCILMAN LOUIS.
THANK YOU AND THANKS TO THE
FOLKS THAT WORKED ON THIS AND
DID ALL THE HEAVY LIFTING TO
BRING IT TO COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION.
I EXPECT IT TO BE PASSED
UNANIMOUSLY BUT I DO HAVE A
QUESTION ON THE STATUTORY
LIMITATIONS IF THERE IS A
STATUTORY LIMITATION WE WERE
REMOVING THAT THE COMPLAINT
MUST BE FILED WITH ONE HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY DAYS MISRATAH PLUS
HERE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO ASK
HER THAT QUESTION.
THANK YOU FOR REMOVING THAT
SOLD OUT WITH LINES PREVIOUSLY
IN THE AUDIENCE AND IS
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT THE EEOC
PRACTICES.
IT&apos;S EITHER ONE HUNDRED DAYS OR
THREE HUNDRED DAYS.
IT&apos;S KIND JUST AN ARBITRARY
NUMBER AND SO WELL WE&apos;VE SEEN
OVER TIME IS YOU KNOW PEOPLE
DON&apos;T ALWAYS FEEL COMFORTABLE
COMING FORWARD WITHIN THAT
PERIOD OF TIME THAT MAYBE A
TRAUMA THEY SUFFER AND THAT
THEY DON&apos;T FEEL COMFORTABLE
ABOUT UNTIL THEY COME FORWARD
LATER.
SO WE&apos;RE THROUGH WORK THROUGH
THE HRC.
THEY&apos;VE MADE THE RECOMMENDATION
THAT WE REMOVE THE ONE HUNDRED
EIGHTY DAYS AND THERE&apos;S NO
LEGAL PROBLEM WITH THAT.
IF WE WERE TO PROSECUTE SOMEONE
UNDER THE ORDINANCE THERE WOULD
STILL BE A TWO YEAR STATUTE
OF LIMITATIONS.
BUT REMOVING THE 180 DAYS IS
FINE AND ALLOWS MORE PEOPLE TO
BRING THEIR COMPLAINTS FORWARD
WHEN THEY FEEL READY.
THANK YOU.
AND AGAIN JUST FOR THE FOR THE
PUBLIC WHERE WOULD SOMEBODY
REPORT THESE ACTS?
I MEAN THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION SO THEY HAVE EITHER
YOU CAN SUBMIT IT IN WRITING,
THEY TAKE IT BY TELEPHONE, THEY
TAKE IT BY PERSON ANYWAY THANK
YOU
.
YEAH.
THANKS THANKS FOR BEING HERE TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE QUESTIONS I
HAD ABOUT THIS POTENTIAL
CONFLICT BETWEEN THE LEGAL
STATUTE LIMITATIONS IN OUR
REPORTING NO LIMIT ON OUR
REPORTING AND YOU KNOW THAT&apos;S
FINE AS LONG AS PEOPLE ARE
INFORMED HEY THIS HAPPENED A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO THERE MIGHT
NOT BE ANY KIND OF THING WE CAN
DO OTHER THAN WHATEVER WE ARE
ALLOWED TO DO OUTSIDE OF THAT
PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; SO WHEN SOMEONE IS SUPPOSED
TO REPORT TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION OR I WOULD GUESS ANY
OTHER BOARD AND COMMISSION, HOW
IS IT THAT THAT HAPPENS WHEN
BOARD AND COMMISSION MEMBERS I
MEAN THE COUNCIL
REPRESENTATIVES ON BOARD AND
COMMISSIONS HAVE PUBLICLY
FACING CONTACT INFORMATION BUT
A BOARD ITSELF DOESN&apos;T.
SO PLANNING COMMISSION DOESN&apos;T
HAVE PLANNING COMMISSION EMAILS
AT A TWO GOV DOT GOV AND SO ON
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION THEY
DON&apos;T HAVE THEIR PRIVATE EMAIL
.
SO HOW HOW WOULD WE EXPECT TO
RECEIVE SAY AN EMAIL OR A PHONE
CALL OR EVEN AN IN-PERSON
THING?
WOULD IT GO TO THE COUNCIL REP
AND HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION OR
I&apos;M SORRY LAST WEEK OH YOU&apos;RE
THE INTERIM HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION DOES HAVE OUR OWN
CITY EMAIL ADDRESS.
SO THAT&apos;S WHERE THE MAJORITY
OF COMPLAINTS COMPLAINTS COME
THROUGH AND SIMILAR TO IT THEY
ALSO HAVE AN ONLINE FORUM THAT
PEOPLE SUBMIT THAT GOES THROUGH
SHAREPOINT IN A NUMBER OF THE
COMMISSION MEMBERS.
I ACTUALLY DO HAVE A CITY EMAIL
ADDRESS.
AS FOR THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION, SO WORKS THERE THEY
HAVE KIND OF A SUBGROUP I THINK
THERE&apos;S MAYBE FOUR OF THEM ON
IT RIGHT NOW AND THEY&apos;RE THE
ONES THAT MANAGE THE COMPLAINT
.
SO IT INITIALLY CONSTANT
THROUGH THE ENTIRE PROCESS
WHETHER THAT&apos;S A HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION BOTTOM LINE, THEIR
EMAIL ADDRESS OR THE COMPLAINT
FORM AND THEN IT&apos;S OVER TO
SOMEONE ON THE SUBGROUP TO
INVESTIGATE A COMPLAINT.
&gt;&gt; SO LIKE LIKE MISS JANES IS
AN EXAMPLE WOULD RECEIVE THAT
OK, ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHY I THOUGHT I&apos;D
JUST CHECK AND THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS CONCERNING
FROM LOUIS?
THANK YOU.
UM, FOLKS ARE STILL ABLE TO
CALL NINE ONE ONE THEY&apos;RE STILL
ABLE TO REACH A PD.
IT&apos;S NOT JUST ONLY THROUGH THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION THAT
THESE COMPLAINTS BE MADE.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN THEY CAN COME I&apos;VE EVEN
GOTTEN SOME MYSELF TO MILDRED
ADDRESS YOU CAN DIRECT TO THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
CONTROVERSAL.
I WAS JUST WONDERING IF THERE&apos;S
AN EFFORT TO COMMUNICATE THIS
WORK WITH THE INTER REPUBLICS
GHOUL&apos;S.
I KNOW THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF PARENT ADVOCACY ADVOCACY
GROUPS WHO ARE WORKING PRETTY
ACTIVELY AND TRYING TO ADDRESS
SOME ISSUES OF YOU RACISM AND
DISCRIMINATION WITHIN OUR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
SO I&apos;M JUST NOT SURE IS THIS
SOMETHING WHERE PARENTS CAN
REGISTER COMPLAINTS TOO OR IS
IT JUST IS IT LIMITED TO THOSE
AFFECTED WHO ARE ADULTS?
&gt;&gt; NO.
ANYONE CAN FILE A COMPLAINT.
I&apos;M NOT EXACTLY SURE
OF OUTREACH EFFORTS TO THE
SCHOOL COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON
MAY ACTUALLY KNOW THAT BETTER
BECAUSE SHE ATTENDS ALL THE
MEETINGS BUT I KNOW THAT THEY
HAVE HAD A LOT OF COMMISSION
HAS HAD A LOT OF DISCUSSION
LATELY ON HOW TO GET A MESSAGE
OUT TO THE PUBLIC ABOUT THESE
PROTECTIONS AND HOW TO INFORM
THEM ABOUT THEIR RIGHTS AND HOW
THEY CAN FILE COMPLAINTS.
BUT ANYONE CAN FILE A COMPLAINT
SO IT CAN BE A PARENT SOMEONE
WHO WITNESSES SOMETHING ACTUAL
COMPLAINANT.
GREAT.
THANK YOU, COUNSELOR.
HERE.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR ONE MORE THING
SINCE WE&apos;RE HERE SO UNDER NINE
ONE FIVE SIX DISCRIMINATOR
NOTARI EFFECTS IT SAYS NO
PERSON SHALL ADOPT IN FORCE OR
EMPLOY ANY POLICY OR
REQUIREMENT AND I WOULD ASSUME
THAT MEANS THE CITY ITSELF ALSO
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN THE CITY AS A PERSON.
OK, SO BARRING THE EXISTENCE
OF LIKE AN OMBUDSPERSON LIKE
THE MODEL ETHICS ORDINANCE
PROMOTES HOW WOULD THIS HOW
WOULD A COMPLAINT AGAINST THE
CITY BE HANDLED INTERNALLY
WOULD ALSO BE HANDLED BY THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S SPELLED OUT IN A
DIFFERENT SECTION IN THE
ORDINANCE FOR COMPLAINTS
AGAINST CITY EMPLOYEES THEY
HAVE TO THE CITY PROCESSES
FIRST.
SO WHETHER THAT&apos;S THROUGH A
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PROCESS,
A GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE OR AN
H.R. POLICY ONCE THAT PROCESS
IS EXHAUSTED THEN THEY CAN FILE
A COMPLAINT WITH THE HUMAN
RIGHTS AND THAT DOES HAPPEN ON
OCCASION.
SO LIKE SOMEBODY MAKES A CLAIM
THAT A COMMUNITY STANDARDS
OFFICER DID SOMETHING OFFENSIVE
I MEAN I&apos;M SORRY COMMUNITY
STANDARDS BUT JUST TO PICK
SOMEONE FROM A CITY THAT&apos;S NOT
FACING YOU KNOW, THEN HOW WOULD
THEY KNOW WHERE TO MAKE THAT
COMPLAINT?
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;D CALL THE POLICE.
THEY CALL COMMUNITY STANDARDS A
I MEAN YOU&apos;RE GOING TO REDIRECT
THEM OR MISS JAIN&apos;S OR SOMEONE
WILL REDIRECT THEM IF THAT
COMPLAINTS COME TO HRC COMES
DIRECTLY TO ME AND THEN I&apos;LL
SEND THROUGH THE PROPER PROCESS
WHETHER THAT&apos;S A LABOR PROCESS
NAJARA PROCESS OR COMBINATION.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COUNCILMAN NELSON.
I JUST I JUST WANT TO SPEAK TO
SOMETHING THAT MORE STRATABOUND
MENTIONED WHICH IS THAT WE HAVE
BEEN HAVING SIGNIFICANT
DISCUSSION AT HRC ABOUT
OUTREACH AND HOW TO MAKE THE
COMMUNITY AWARE
OF OPPORTUNITIES TO BRING
GRIEVANCES TO THE HRC.
SO I WILL DEFINITELY IN OUR
NEXT MEETING BRING UP THE
CONCEPT OF THE SCHOOLS BECAUSE
I DON&apos;T RECALL A SPECIFIC
CONVERSATION AROUND THAT.
BUT WE ARE HAVING I THAT PUBLIC
OUTREACH POSTERS AND THINGS
HAVE BEEN UPDATED RECENTLY TO
DIRECT TO SPECIFIC GROUPS IN
THE COMMUNITY AND JUST JUST
HAVE IT KIND OF EVERYWHERE.
&gt;&gt; THIS HAS BEEN AN ONGOING HOT
TOPIC.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
YES, THAT&apos;S REALLY ENCOURAGING.
I I WOULD HOPE THAT PERHAPS WE
WOULD ALSO CONSIDER HAVING THE
OUTREACH IN DIFFERENT LANGUAGES
TO JUST SO THAT FOLKS FEEL
COMFORTABLE AND THAT THE
INFORMATION IS MORE ACCESSIBLE
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS FROM COUNSEL?
THANK YOU FOR TURNING AROUND
AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR
EXCELLENT WORK SERVING THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND TO
ALL THOSE COMMISSIONERS WHO
TOOK SO MUCH TIME TO BRING THIS
FORWARD, I KNOW THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE 180 DAYS
HAPPENED EVEN A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO WHEN I WAS ON THE
COMMISSION.
SO I&apos;M GLAD TO SEE THIS COME
FORWARD.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT&apos;S WEIRD BUT OK, I&apos;M
ALL IN FAVOR.
I OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES WE
HAVE NO FIRST READING
ORDINANCES AND NOW WE MOVE TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS COUNCIL DC
ONE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES EXEMPTION
CERTIFICATE BETWEEN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND SARTORIUS
BIOTECHNICAL AND ANALYTICAL
INSTRUMENTS MAY HAVE A MOTION
TO APPROVE COUNCIL MERGERS
SECOND BY COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD
WE ARE GETTING SOME ODD
FEEDBACK IN THE ROOM HERE.
&gt;&gt; I THOUGHT IT WAS ME BUT I&apos;M
GLAD IT&apos;S NOT BEFORE WE TAKE A
RECESS, LET&apos;S JUST TAKE A BIT
TO SEE IF WE CAN ADDRESS THAT
.
WE&apos;LL WAIT FOR COUNCILOR NELSON
TO COME BACK TO THE TABLE.
I THINK.
OK, I THINK THAT THANK YOU.
THAT PROBLEM IS SOLVED.
ALL RIGHT.
ARE THE COUNCIL MEMBERS THAT
WISH TO SPEAK ON DC ONE COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH I THINK WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE
SPOKEN A LOT ABOUT THIS
DEVELOPMENT AND I WANTED TO
UNDERSCORE THE THE REALLY
POSITIVE FEATURES OF IT AND SO
THE SITE WAS ENVIRONMENTALLY
CONTAMINATED AND SO IT WILL
RECEIVE BROWNFIELD TIF MONEY
AND THAT WILL CREATE A ONE
POINT ONE PLUS MILLION
CONTRIBUTION BY SARTORIUS TO
THE ANN ARBOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND.
THAT&apos;S A POSITIVE FEATURE WE&apos;VE
ALREADY HEARD OF BOTH FROM
PROPONENTS OF THE PROJECT AND
EVEN THOSE WHO HAVE
RESERVATIONS ABOUT IT THAT IT&apos;S
BRINGING A REALLY GREAT
INDUSTRY TO ANN ARBOR AND LOTS
OF JOBS.
THE SPECIFIC SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES OF THE PROJECT ARE
THAT IT WILL BE CONSTRUCTED TO
LEAD GOLD NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE
STANDARD THAT COULD BE MET FOR
A FACILITY OF THIS TYPE AND
LOCATION.
THE PETITIONER CAME IN
PROPOSING A ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY KILOWATT SOLAR ARRAY BUT
HAS INCREASED THAT TO TWO
HUNDRED KILOWATTS IT IS THAT
DOES MAX OUT THEIR CAPACITY FOR
SOLAR SO THAT&apos;S SOMETHING TO BE
ACKNOWLEDGED.
THEY ARE INSTALLING A COMPLETE
EV CHARGING SYSTEM SO ELECTRIC
VEHICLE I SHOULD SAY AND THE
DESIGN IS BEING COMPLETED FAR
ABOVE AND BEYOND THE CITY&apos;S
CURRENT ENERGY CODE WORTH
NOTING ALTHOUGH IT&apos;S NOT ABOVE
AND BEYOND ANY REQUIREMENTS IS
THAT I MEAN IT IS A REQUIREMENT
AND THEY ARE COMPLYING WITH IT
BUT ANOTHER SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURE OF THIS PROJECT IS THAT
A COMPLETE STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IS BEING
DEVELOPED AT THE SITE.
NONE EXISTED THERE BEFORE AS IS
THE CASE IN MANY PARTS ANN
ARBOR AND THAT HAS
CREATED NEIGHBORHOOD
NEIGHBORHOOD WIDE FLOODING
ISSUES AND OF COURSE FLOODING
IS AS SIGNIFICANT A PART OF OUR
CLIMATE CATASTROPHE AS ENERGY
AND AND FINALLY JUST A NEAT
FEATURE OF THE SITE IS THAT THE
PETITIONER WILL WILL HAVE
ONSITE AMENITIES LIKE FOOD
TRUCKS, REALLY NICE OUTSIDE
SPACES TO TO CREATE A CAMPUS
ATMOSPHERE SO THAT THE
EMPLOYEES DO NOT HAVE TO DRIVE
TO GET THEIR LUNCH OR DRIVE TO
A PARK ALTHOUGH THEY COULD WE
WOULDN&apos;T MIND AND I WAS GOOD
FOR THAT.
IN ANY CASE THERE ARE TERRIFIC
FEATURES OF THIS PROJECT.
MR. GARBER IS HAS REALLY
CONTRIBUTED PRODUCTIVELY TO THE
DISCUSSION AROUND IT AROUND THE
ENERGY FEATURES THAT WE WISH IT
COULD HAVE.
BUT WE SPOKE FOR MANY HOURS A
PLANNING COMMISSION ABOUT THIS
PROJECT AND REACHED THE
CONCLUSION THAT THEY ARE DOING
WHAT IS TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE IN
THIS CLIMATE AT THAT SITE GIVEN
ITS GEOGRAPHY AND GIVEN OUR
WEATHER SO I WELCOME THIS
PROJECT AND THINK WE SHOULD
GRANT THE TAX DEFERMENT.
THANK YOU.
OR ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO SEE THAT
COMES FROM OUR HAYNER PRIMARY
CUSTOMER.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THANK YOU.
SO JUST FOR THE PUBLIC
KNOWLEDGE THAT SARTORIUS IS
REQUESTING ABATEMENT OF FIFTY
FOUR POINT FIVE EIGHT SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS IN REAL
PROPERTY IMPROVEMENTS SO
ESSENTIALLY FOR A PERIOD
OF TIME WHERE WE&apos;RE WAIVING THE
CONSIDERATION THAT THEY MADE
THOSE IMPROVEMENTS AND NOT
TERRORISM PROPERTY TAXES AND I
GUESS THE ONLY REASON I WANT TO
COMMENT ON THIS IS BECAUSE WE
OFTEN AND ESPECIALLY WHEN
THERE&apos;S BUDGET TIME COMES
AROUND WE RECEIVE PLEAS FROM
HOMEOWNERS WHERE THEY SAY IS
THERE ANY WAY YOU CAN GIVE US
SOME KIND OF PROPERTY TAX
RELIEF?
HEY, I&apos;M A VETERAN.
I SERVED ARE SERVED OUR
COUNTRY.
I SERVED OUR COMMUNITIES KIND
OF THING.
CAN I HAVE SOME PROPERTY TAX
RELIEF?
I&apos;M A SENIOR.
I&apos;M ON A FIXED INCOME.
CAN I HAVE SOME PROPERTY TAX
RELIEF AND YOU KNOW, I&apos;M BELOW
A CERTAIN LEVEL.
WE HAVE A POVERTY ASSESSMENT
THAT WE DO BUT IT INCLUDES THE
VALUE OF YOUR HOUSE AND SO MOST
PEOPLE ARE EXCLUDED FROM THAT
IMPOVERISHED STATE AND WE&apos;VE
DONE WHAT WE CAN TO EXPAND THAT
UNDER THE CURRENT LAWS.
BUT YOU KNOW, WHEN WE WHEN WE
TELL THE INDIVIDUAL HOMEOWNER
NO WITH NOTHING WE CAN DO TO
HELP YOU OUT AND THEN WE TELL
IT CORPORATION YES OR SOMETHING
WE CAN DO TO THE TUNE OF 54
MILLION TO HELP YOU OUT IT JUST
DOESN&apos;T SIT WELL I&apos;M GOING TO
SAY YES TO THIS JUST LIKE I
WOULD SAY YES IF WE COULD DO
SOMETHING TO PEOPLE FOR FOLKS
WHO WERE HOUSE POOR LIVING HERE
IN ANN ARBOR AND I THINK THAT
WE SHOULD CONSIDER LOOKING AT
THAT AND IF IF THE STATE LAWS
DON&apos;T ALLOW IT BUT THEY ALLOW
THIS, THEN THAT&apos;S A PROBLEM
WITH THE STATE LAWS AND WE
SHOULD BE URGING THE STATE TO
CHANGE THEIR LAWS TO ALLOW
PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS
ADJUSTMENTS FOR THOSE IN NEED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COUNSELOR RAMLI.
THANK YOU.
I SHARE SOME OF THE SAME
CONCERNS MY COLLEAGUE JUST
EXPRESSED THAT REALLY BIG ON
GIVING TAX BREAKS TO THOSE WHO
CAN AFFORD TO DO WITH
OTHERWISE.
I UNDERSTAND THOUGH THAT&apos;S NOT
HOW THIS IS BEING BROUGHT
FORWARD.
THERE IS PUBLIC BENEFIT THAT
WILL BE GIVEN AN EXCHANGE FOR
THAT UM, I DO RECOGNIZE THAT I
I I DO LIKE THE WAY BROWNFIELD
UM SYSTEM IS SET UP WHEREAS
THERE IS GOING TO BE OVER A
MILLION DOLLARS HEADING INTO
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND IF
IT WAS NOT FOR THAT ONE POINT
ONE MILLION GOING INTO THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND I WOULD
NOT SUPPORT THIS OR TONIGHT
IT&apos;S GREAT TO WELCOME MORE JOBS
,HIGH PAYING JOBS INTO OUR
AREA BUT THOSE JOBS ARE GOING
TO COMPETE WITH FOLKS WHO OFTEN
MAKE LESS UH, THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
BE COMPETING FOR HOUSING AND I
KNOW IT&apos;S A DELICATE BALANCE.
IT&apos;S NOT MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE BUT
IT&apos;S A CONCERN OF MINE WHEN WE,
UM, HAVE THE CRISIS THAT WE
HAVE WITH THE AFFORDABILITY
HERE IN THIS COMMUNITY AND
THOSE ON THE LOWER END OF THE
WAGE SCALE ARE PRICED OUT AND
THEY HOUSING IS A UNIVERSAL
HUMAN RIGHT AND WE SHOULDN&apos;T BE
RELEGATED OR DELEGATED TO JUST
OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTY, UH,
IN ORDER TO HAVE HOUSING WE
SHOULD HAVE AN INTEGRATED UH,
COMMUNITY.
I DO APPRECIATE THE EFFORTS
THAT HAVE BEEN MADE TO ACHIEVE
OUR GOALS IN A TWO ZERO UM
WE&apos;VE COME CLOSE BUT WE HAVEN&apos;T
GOTTEN THERE ALL THE WAY AND I
DON&apos;T KNOW HOW WE&apos;RE GOING TO
FIX THAT GOING FORWARD.
BUT I KNOW A GOOD FAITH EFFORT
HAS BEEN MADE IN DOING SO AND I
APPRECIATE THE EFFORTS OF MR.
GARBER TO EDUCATE AND PUSH US
IN UPHOLDING THE PLEDGES THAT
WE&apos;VE MADE TO OUR COMMUNITY AND
THE POLICIES THAT WE&apos;VE
ADOPTED.
I&apos;LL BE SUPPORTING STATE FOR
MANY DIFFERENT REASONS.
SOME OF THEM THEY&apos;RE GESTATED
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO NEW
NEIGHBORS AND NEW RESIDENTS AND
NEW BUSINESSES COMING INTO OUR
COMMUNITY ONLY TO MAKE IT
STRONGER AND BETTER AS WE GO
FORWARD.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN RITESH
.
I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY ONE
POINT BECAUSE I MAY NOT HAVE
BEEN CLEAR WHEN I SPOKE AND
THAT IS THAT WHAT WE ARE
OFFERING HERE IS A WE ARE NOT
OFFERING TAX RELIEF FROM
PROPERTY TAXES.
THAT IS NOT WHAT THIS KIND
OF TAX ABATEMENT DOES.
&gt;&gt; IT MERELY DEFERS TAXING
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO A SITE
FOR A PERIOD OF UP TO TWELVE
YEARS DURING THAT 12 YEAR
PERIOD WE WERE WE WILL CONTINUE
TO GET AS THE SAME AMOUNT IN
PROPERTY TAXES AS WE WOULD HAVE
ALREADY AND WHEN I 12 YEARS ARE
UP WE WILL HAVE A THE CITY WILL
RECEIVE CONSIDERABLY HIGHER
REVENUES THAT REFLECT THE FULL
VALUE OF THE REDEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; SO WE ARE NOT LOSING
ANYTHING.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE WAITING A LITTLE
WHILE BEFORE WE RECOUP IN
PROPERTY, IN TAXES, THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS ON THE PROJECT
COMES FROM RUCKERSVILLE.
I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE AND THANK
THE CONTRA BUCSHON OF KEN
GARBER.
I CAREFULLY READ HIS EMAIL
TWICE.
I&apos;VE TALKED TO HIM ABOUT THIS.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S VERY TROUBLING BUT AT
THE SAME TIME WE APPROVE A
TRANSIT CORRIDOR IN THAT SAME
AREA WITHOUT REQUIREMENTS.
IN FACT THE DEVELOPMENT HAS
LESS REQUIREMENTS THAN WHAT&apos;S
BEING PROPOSED FOR THIS
PROJECT.
SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING IT BUT
I HOPE THAT WE WILL CONTINUE TO
WORK TOGETHER TO TRY TO BECOME
MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT IN THE
FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK COUNCILPERSONS
?
AT OUR LAST MEETING I NOTED
THAT WITH ONE APPROVAL THE HOPE
WAS THAT PERHAPS SARTORIUS
EMPLOYEES OF ALL ACROSS THE PAY
SCALE I&apos;M ASSUMING WOULD BE
ABLE TO AFFORD TO LIVE IN AN
AND WORK NEW YORK ENDEAVOR AND
REDUCE THE NUMBER OF DAILY
COMMUTERS WE HAVE TO THE CITY
WHICH IS PRE PANDEMIC WAS 80000
A DAY 300 OUT OF THE 80000
IS
STILL SOMETHING.
SO I APPRECIATE THIS INVESTMENT
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND HOPEFULLY
WE CAN WELCOME THESE LONG TERM
NEIGHBORS.
&gt;&gt; THANKS ANYONE ELSE.
I&apos;D LIKE TO ALSO JUST YOU KNOW
,WELCOME CZARTORYSKI AND OUR
VERY FROM THE FEEDBACK I&apos;VE
RECEIVED FROM STAFF OVER SOME
CONVERSATIONS IS THAT THEY&apos;VE
REALLY BEEN EXCELLENT PARTNERS
AND NEGOTIATED IN GOOD FAITH
AND BEEN WILLING TO MOVE.
AND I&apos;VE ALSO SAT THROUGH AN
BROWNFIELD COMMITTEE AND I&apos;M
ALWAYS EXCITED FOR
OPPORTUNITIES TO CLEAN UP
ABANDONED CONTAMINATED SITES
AND TURN THEM INTO PLACES WHERE
WE CAN WELCOME NEW EMPLOYEES.
&gt;&gt; AND I&apos;M ALSO INCREDIBLY
EXCITED ABOUT THE POTENTIAL FOR
SYNERGY GIVEN THE PROXIMITY
OF THE NEW ONE DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; SO I LOOK FORWARD TO
ENTHUSIASTICALLY PASSING THIS
AND THANK STAFF FOR ALL THE
REALLY SIGNIFICANT WORK THAT
HAPPENED ACROSS THE BOARD
OF THE ORGANIZATION.
OK, IT LOOKS LIKE WE NEED A
ROLL CALL VOTE STARTING WITH
COUNCILMAN BURGESS COUNCIL OVER
DISH.
YES HANSBERGER AS WELL.
YES, CASPERSON YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT
GRAM YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA APSA MAYOR
TAYLOR APSA CUSTOMER IRE YES.
COUNCILOR NELSON YES.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILOR BRIGGS ABSENT
COUNCILOR ALAWI YES.
CUSTOMER HAYNER YES.
&gt;&gt; MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU DC
TO RESOLUTION FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR TO SPONSOR
INFORMATION ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSISTANCE CORPORATION
OF AMERICA NACOLE MORTGAGES TO
CITY EMPLOYEES AND RESIDENTS
CAN I HAVE A MOTION MOVED BY
CUSTOMER CHRIS WELCH SECONDED
BY COUNCILMAN DISCUSSION OF DC
TO COUNCIL WORKERS?
&gt;&gt; WELL I WOULD LIKE TO MOVE
THAT WE SUPPORT THE TWO
RESOLUTION VERSION TO THE THE
MAIN RESOLUTION AND THAT IS OUT
ON REGISTAR AND HAS BEEN IN A
PACKET AND THE MAIN PURPOSE
OF THAT WAS JUST TO MAKE THE
LANGUAGE MORE GENERAL AND NOT
SPECIFIC TO AN INDIVIDUAL
ORGANIZATION.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE A SECOND FOR THAT
SECOND MY CONCERN NO DISCUSSION
OF THE SUBSTITUTE AMENDMENT
COUNTS FOR OUR NINE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
UM, I WOULD JUST LIKE TO THANK
UM BRIAN CHAMBERS AND OTHERS
WHO UM JOHN MOROWSKI WHO HAVE
HELPED BRING THIS TO THE TABLE
.
WE HAD TO POSTPONE IT FROM OUR
EARLIER MEETINGS TO ADDRESS
SOME ISSUES.
UM OF THE EXCLUSIVITY OF THE
WORDING IN THIS RESOLUTION.
THIS NEW WORDING HAS OR IT&apos;S A
LITTLE BIT MORE OPEN AND
DOESN&apos;T JUST DESCRIBE ONE
ORGANIZATION AND HELPING LEAD
THE FIGHT IN THE MISSING MIDDLE
.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THIS BODY HAS DONE A
GOOD JOB IN THE LAST SEVERAL
YEARS.
UM, ESPECIALLY IN BETWEEN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND TWENTY
TWENTY IN ADDRESSING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WE PASSED AN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILLAGE WHERE WE
IDENTIFIED ELEVEN CITY OWNED
PROPERTIES FOR DEVELOPMENT.
WE&apos;VE ALSO WORKED IN RELAXING
OUR ZONING LAWS AND ZONING
REGULATIONS TO ALLOW OTHER
TYPES OF HOUSING TO BE BUILT
AND THAT THAT IS USUALLY HOMES
THAT ARE ON THE HIGHER END
OF THE SPECTRUM.
SO WE WORKED IN WAYS TO ADDRESS
UM THE EXTREME ENDS OF THE
OF THE HOUSING SPECTRUMS.
UH, I THINK WE&apos;VE IGNORED THE
MIDDLE FOLKS THAT UM DON&apos;T
QUALIFY FOR EITHER OF THOSE
EITHER HIGH END HOMES OR
ASSISTED BY PROGRAMS AND THAT
UNFORTUNATELY HAS ONLY BEEN
EXACERBATED BY THE PANDEMIC AND
SO THIS WAS UM RELATIVELY EASY
TO GET BEHIND AND SUPPORT BASED
ON THOSE FACTS.
HOMEOWNERSHIP IS KEY TO
INTERGENERATIONAL WEALTH.
UM, WE CAN LOOK TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENED TO FOLKS OF COLOR AND
THE OPPORTUNITIES THAT THEY
HAVE BEEN DENIED IN CREATING
WEALTH BECAUSE OF THE LENDING
LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND RED
LINES AND SO ON AND SO FORTH.
DID RESTRICTIONS THEY&apos;VE BEEN
KEPT OUT OF , UM, BECOMING AND
ENJOYING THE PROSPERITY THAT
MANY PEOPLE HAVE OTHERWISE
HAVE.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN, UM THIS IS AN AREA
I THINK AS WE GO FORWARD NEEDS
TO BE LOOKED AT MORE AND WE
NEED TO BE MORE AGGRESSIVE IN
FINDING WAYS AND SOLUTIONS AND
TO GETTING PEOPLE WHO ARE IN
THE WORKING CLASSES BACK INTO
HOMEOWNERSHIP AND BACK INTO
ENJOYING THE PROSPERITY THAT
MANY OTHERS IN THIS COUNTRY
HAVE AT THE EXPENSE OF OTHERS.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; AND SOME WORKERS WELL I ALSO
WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IAN
ROBINSON SPOKE IN FAVOR OF THIS
RESOLUTION AT THE LAST COUNCIL
MEETING AND ALSO THERE IS A
FULL PAGE ARTICLE IN THE MAY
ANN ARBOR OBSERVER ABOUT THIS
RESOLUTION AS WELL AS A
RESOLUTION THAT WILL BE COMING
BEFORE COUNCIL VERY SOON, WHICH
IS THE SHORT TITLE IS THE U
OF M WORKFORCE HOUSING
RESOLUTION WHICH AGAIN
ADDRESSES SOME OF THAT MISSING
MIDDLE.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN, THANK YOU TO THE
AND OUR OBSERVER THANK YOU TO
BRIAN CHAMBERS WHO IS STILL
WITH US THIS EVENING.
THIS RESOLUTION HAD SIGNIFICANT
SUPPORT AND I&apos;M I&apos;M REALLY
PLEASED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO SPEAK UP ON
THIS RESOLUTION, MA&apos;AM?
YEAH, THANK YOU.
I THINK IT&apos;S GOOD TO BRING
ATTENTION TO THESE KINDS
OF THINGS.
I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW MUCH IMPACT
THIS IS GOING TO HAVE IN OUR
COMMUNITY BUT I HOPE IT DOES
HELP BECAUSE AS OTHERS HAVE
POINTED OUT, WE&apos;RE REALLY
CHIPPING AWAY AGAINST THE
PERCENTAGE OF HOUSING THAT IS
REMAINING AVAILABLE AND
AFFORDABLE, YOU KNOW, BEYOND
OUR OUR SOCIAL HOUSING EFFORTS
.
IT&apos;S USED TO BE TO BE
PREQUALIFIED WAS ENOUGH TO GET
YOU, YOU KNOW, IN LINE FOR A
FOR A MORTGAGE TO BUY A HOUSE
AND NOW YOU&apos;RE FIGHTING WITH
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS
AND CASH BUYERS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT AND AND I&apos;M NOT SURE EVEN
PREQUALIFICATION IS ANY GOOD
ANYMORE.
AND SO BUT PERHAPS BEING
PREQUALIFIED WITH A KIND OF A
NO DOWN PAYMENT TYPE LOAN WHERE
YOU&apos;RE GUARANTEED THAT IT&apos;S NOT
GOING TO WALK AWAY WILL HELP
SOME PEOPLE GET IN LINE FOR
WHATEVER SOMEWHAT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS LEFT.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S BEEN BOUNCING
AROUND AND I&apos;VE SEEN SOME IT
FLOATED ON SOCIAL MEDIA AND IN
THE PAPER GENERALLY THAT AS
PART OF A MODEL ETHICS THAT
ELECTED OFFICIALS WOULD
DISCLOSE THEIR FINANCIAL
DEALINGS OR THEIR YOU KNOW,
THEIR INCOMES AS AN EXAMPLE AND
NOT A BIG FAN OF THAT.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S REALLY
NECESSARY.
BUT I WILL SAY IF YOU LOOK AT
THE MEDIAN INCOME FOR A FAMILY
OF FOUR IT 106 SOME THOUSAND
HERE IN THE ENTIRE METRO AREA,
YOU KNOW, I&apos;D BE HAPPY TO TELL
YOU WHERE I PLUG COHESION AND
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S BELOW AND THERE HAVE
BEEN TIMES IN THE LAST DECADE
HERE WHERE WE HAVE BEEN MY
FAMILY FOR HAS BEEN YOU KNOW,
QUALIFIED FOR 60 PERCENT ARMY
HOUSING COSTS.
I WOULD NEVER TAKE IT BECAUSE I
KNOW THERE&apos;S SO MANY PEOPLE WHO
DON&apos;T HAVE THE ABILITY TO WORK
AND AND KIND OF FEND FOR
THEMSELVES THAT THOSE THE NEED
IS SO GREAT IN OUR COMMUNITY
BUT IT&apos;S ALWAYS AN EYE OPENER
TO SEE WHAT IS CONSIDERED A
MEDIAN HERE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
AND SO YEAH, THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S IT&apos;S
TOUGH TO SEE THAT.
AND SO ANYTHING WE CAN DO TO TO
TO LET PEOPLE KNOW THAT THERE
ARE OPTIONS THAT THEY CAN GET
INTO HOMES AND I MEAN I THINK
WE COULD BE DOING A LOT MORE.
I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE US HAVE, YOU
KNOW, SUPPORT COOPERATIVE
EFFORTS IN BUYERS COOPERATIVES
AND LANDHOLDING COOPERATIVES
AND SO ON.
BUT I MEAN THAT&apos;S ANOTHER
ANOTHER POLICY FOR ANOTHER DAY.
BUT OBVIOUSLY I&apos;M GOING TO
SUPPORT THIS COUNCILPERSON.
WE HAVE JENNIFER JENNIFER HULL
WHO CAN ANSWER SOME QUESTIONS
RELATED TO THIS.
IT&apos;S ALL AVAILABLE.
I DIDN&apos;T SEE HER ON LAST UM OH
AND A SONG I&apos;M SORRY BEFORE YOU
START I JUST MISSED YOU
REMINDED ME I&apos;M ASSUMING THAT
THIS IS FRIENDLY TO THE BODY
BUT I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY
THAT WITH THE GROUP AS A
SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION.
OK, GREAT SORRY COUNCIL SOUND
SO I&apos;M GLAD THAT THERE&apos;S A
SUBSTITUTE RESOLUTION.
I AM I WAS VERY WARY OF THE
PRIVATE ENTITY THAT WAS
REFERENCED BEFORE THIS.
THAT ORGANIZATION HAD
THE WAY
THE WAY THAT ORGANIZING WAS
PRESENTED THERE SEEMED REALLY,
REALLY PROBLEMATIC.
I YOU KNOW, I HAD A LONG
CONVERSATION WITH OUR HOUSING
DIRECTOR JENNIFER HALL AROUND
THIS.
I ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
MISSING MIDDLE.
I ASKED THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
HOMEOWNERSHIP AND HOUSING AND
WHY WAS IT THAT OUR HOUSING
ADVOCATES WERE NOT RALLYING
BEHIND THIS OR ADVOCATING FOR
HOMEOWNERSHIP
?
AND WE HAD A REALLY INTERESTING
DISCUSSION.
I I DON&apos;T KNOW IF OTHER COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND THE SPONSORS HAD
HAD THE SAME DISCUSSION WITH
HER.
SO YOU KNOW, I I I&apos;M RELUCTANT
TO SUPPORT THIS IF ONLY BECAUSE
YOU KNOW, IF THERE ARE WE HAVE
HABITAT HUMANITY ALSO OFFERS
LOW SOMEWHAT SIMILAR MORTGAGES
.
WE HAVE THIS EFFORT IN
COMMUNITY BUT BECAUSE OF MARKET
CONDITIONS IT&apos;S DIFFICULT TO
HAVE TO OFFER TO COMPETE
AGAINST OFFERS THAT ARE COMING
IN IN OUR CITY WITH CASH AND
OVER ASKING TALKING TO REALTORS
THERE&apos;S VERY LITTLE UNDER 300 K
NOW IN THE MARKET.
SO FOR ME MY WORRY IS MORE ON
SUPPLY UNLESS WE ALL HERE ARE
WILLING TO SELL OUR HOMES FOR
THE WHAT WE BOUGHT FOR AS AS
WELL AS OTHER RESIDENTS IN
COMBINATION WITH ZONING CHANGES
.
I&apos;M I&apos;M I&apos;M WORRIED ABOUT
PROMOTING HOMEOWNERSHIP WHEN WE
ARE REALLY STRUGGLING WITH
SUPPLY AND HOUSING, JUST
PROVIDING BASIC HOUSING.
THE MISSING MIDDLE IS NOT
MISSING THERE IN THE TOWNSHIPS
AND I&apos;M NOT QUITE SURE WHERE
THE CITY&apos;S ROLE IS IS IN
PROMOTING THIS WHEN IT&apos;S I&apos;M
NOT SURE IF FOLKS JUST ARE HELD
BACK FROM HOMEOWNERSHIP, FROM
NOT HAVING ACCESS TO
INFORMATION ON WHAT MORTGAGES
ARE AVAILABLE WHEN THROUGHOUT
THEIR PANDEMIC LOW VERY LOW
INTEREST MORTGAGES HAVE BEEN
PROMOTED.
SO I&apos;M RELUCTANT TO SUPPORT
THIS.
I THINK THERE IS A GREATER
DISCUSSION ON HOUSING THAT WE
NEED TO CONCENTRATE ON VERSUS
HOMEOWNERSHIP.
UM, YOU KNOW, I KNOW IT&apos;S NOT
TALKED ABOUT MUCH HERE LATELY
BUT PROCOMP SOLUTIONS WE ALWAYS
DESCRIBED THE HOUSING CRISIS.
THERE&apos;S NO SILVER BULLET.
THERE&apos;S NO ONE ANSWER.
IT&apos;S ALL HANDS ON DECK.
WE NEED AS MUCH AS MANY
RESOURCES AS WE CAN AND TOOLS
TO ALLEVIATE THE PRESSURES, UM,
SOMEWHAT SHOCKED THAT THIS
RESOLUTION IT CALLS JUST TO
DISSEMINATE INFORMATION AND
EDUCATE AND COMMUNICATE WITH NO
BUDGET IMPACT THAT I CAN TELL
OF WOULD BE SOMEONE RELUCTANT
WE I THINK WE NEED TO DO AS
MUCH AS WE POSSIBLY CAN ON ALL
LEVELS FOR THIS ISSUE AND IT&apos;S
NOT PICKING AND CHOOSING THE
MOST EFFECTIVE WAY.
YOU KNOW, I AGREE THERE IS A
SUPPLY PROBLEM.
I MEAN BUT WHAT ARE WE GOING TO
DO TELL PEOPLE WHO HAVE
MULTIPLE HOMES, GIVE THEM UP.
THERE&apos;S PEOPLE WHO WANT THREE,
FOUR, TWO, THREE, FOUR OR FIVE
HOMES.
YOU KNOW, THEY SPEND SIX WEEKS
A YEAR AND YOU KNOW, SO IT&apos;S
THE ACCESS TO CAPITAL WHO&apos;S GOT
IT?
WHO DOESN&apos;T BANKING LAWS AND
LENDING LAWS.
IT&apos;S MORE THAN JUST THE
PHYSICAL STRUCTURE.
IT&apos;S WHO&apos;S GOT THE CAPITAL,
WHO&apos;S GOT ACCESS TO IT AND
THERE&apos;S PEOPLE SITTING ON THREE
AND FOUR HOMES THEY MIGHT THEY
MIGHT SPEND TWO WEEKS A YEAR IN
.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT ONE OF THEM.
THANK YOU.
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD&apos;S WELL
ACTUALLY TOMORROW YOU&apos;VE SPOKEN
TWICE ALREADY, COUNCILMAN SOME
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW I AM NOT THAT
PERSON.
&gt;&gt; I WILL I WILL SAY I HAVE
LOOKED AT, YOU KNOW, HOW OUR
COMMUNITY CAN REALLY BE
IMPROVED WITH, YOU KNOW,
GREATER ACCESS TO FINANCING.
YOU KNOW, THERE&apos;S ORGANIZATIONS
LIKE CDV EYES JENNIFER HALL
HEARS ME ASKING ABOUT ANY WAY
THAT WE CAN FIND ACIDIFY AND
BRINGING THAT TO MICHIGAN AT
NAUSEUM.
I MAY AS WELL JUST WEAR A SHIRT
THAT SAYS CDV I HEAR PLEASE I
AM VERY, VERY INTERESTED IN
UNDERSTANDING HOW WE CAN
PROVIDE CAPITAL TO FOLKS WHO
ARE EXPLORING THE NEED TO
HOMEOWNERSHIP BUT ALSO HOUSING
,RENTING HOMEOWNERS, RENTERS
ARE STILL PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M JUST ASKING FOR A
GREATER DISCUSSION AND ALSO YOU
KNOW, IF SO WE PUT THIS ON THE
WEBSITE FOR FREE.
DO WE PUT OTHER INFORMATION TO
WHERE WE PUT THE HABITAT THIS
INFORMATION OUR EXISTING
COMMUNITY?
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE WHAT THE
BARRIERS ARE BARRIERS TO ENTRY
FOR HOUSING, NOT JUST FOR
HOMEOWNERSHIP ALONGSIDE THAT.
SO SHOULD THAT HAPPEN THEN
HOPEFULLY WE CAN HAVE A MORE
COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTION THAT
WILL BE PROVIDED TO OUR
RESIDENTS AND NOT JUST
HOMEOWNERSHIP.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
IF NO ONE ELSE IS THAT MAY I
HAVE MAY I HAVE PERMISSION TO
STAY UP AND ADDRESS A QUESTION
FROM COUNCIL MEMBER SONG?
&gt;&gt; I WOULD ACTUALLY I HAVEN&apos;T
SPOKEN AT ALL YET AND I HAVE A
QUESTION FOR STAFF THAT I WOULD
LIKE TO ASK THEM FIRST AND THEN
WITH THE ACQUIESCENCE
OF COUNSEL WE CAN ASK FOR A
VOTE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO DO
THAT I I HAVE SOME RESERVATIONS
ABOUT US HAVING HAVING SERVED
AS LIAISON TO THE CITY&apos;S
HOUSING COMMISSION FOR A LONG
TIME AND UNDERSTANDING
RELUCTANCE FROM MISS HALL ABOUT
WHY THIS HASN&apos;T BEEN A STRATEGY
FOR US AS A CITY BECAUSE OF THE
DIFFICULTY AND THE BARRIERS
THAT SHE&apos;S FOUND FOR FOR LOW
AND MODERATE INCOME PEOPLE TO
MAINTAIN HOUSING THAT IS BOUGHT
BECAUSE BECAUSE OWNING A HOUSE
IS VERY EXPENSIVE AND THERE ARE
A LOT OF UNKNOWN UNFORESEEN
COSTS I&apos;D LIKE TO ASK STAFF TO
BECAUSE I DO SHARE SOME OF HER
THINGS CONCERN ABOUT HAVING
THIS ON THE CITY SITE IF
SOMETHING DOES FALL THROUGH,
WILL WE BE BLAMED AS A CITY?
&gt;&gt; BUT IF MAYBE MR. TONY OR
SOMEONE FROM THE CITY
ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE COULD SPEAK
TO JUST SOME OF THE CONCERNS
THAT STAFF MAY HAVE ABOUT THIS
POLICY
.
BUT I WILL SAY THAT FROM THE
BEGINNING OF WHERE THE
CONVERSATION STARTED TO NOW THE
RESOLUTION THAT&apos;S BEFORE YOU
HAS BEEN IMPROVED STAFF HAD
RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT EARLIER
VERSIONS THAT SEEM TO EMBRACE
THE CITY TAKING AN EXCLUSIVITY
ROLE IN SINGLING OUT A
PARTICULAR PROVIDER WHICH WE
THOUGHT WAS PROBLEMATIC.
THERE WAS ALSO CONCERNS THAT WE
RAISED ABOUT BEING ALIGNED WITH
ANY ANY VENDOR TO THE DEGREE
THAT IF A TRANSACTION WENT
SOUTH AND THE CITY WAS SEEN AS
ALMOST ENCOURAGING THEM, THE
FALLOUT WILL COME OUR WAY.
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS ALSO INITIAL
LANGUAGE THAT HAD THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR PLAYING A VERY
ACTIVE ROLE IN PARTNERING WITH
THE VENDOR AND UNDER THE RULES
OF ETHICS FOR INTERNATIONAL
CITY MANAGERS THAT&apos;S NOT
PERMISSIBLE.
AND SO AS THOSE ISSUES WERE
RAISED THERE WAS MODIFICATIONS
MADE TO WHAT IS BEFORE.
&gt;&gt; I CAN&apos;T SAY THAT, YOU KNOW,
EVERYTHING IS ADDRESSED BUT AS
THE POINT THAT WAS MADE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GREIFSWALD THAT
WE&apos;RE ENCOURAGING ALL OF THE
PRODUCTS WITHIN THE MARKETPLACE
AND YOU KNOW, THERE&apos;S NO ISSUE
WITH THAT FROM OUR PERSPECTIVE
.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, THE PLACEMENT OF A
SINGLE VENDOR ON A WEBSITE OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT WOULD MAKE
IT VERY DIFFICULT TO JUSTIFY
DOWN THE ROAD IF YOU TOLD
SOMEONE ELSE NO THAT THAT&apos;S THE
ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER ISSUE THAT WE
RAISED.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD
.
THANK YOU.
YES, I WAS NEGLIGENT IN NOT
ACKNOWLEDGING ALL THE WORK THAT
WAS DONE BY MR. DE HONY, BY THE
LEGAL STAFF, BY JENNIFER HALL
AND I&apos;M TOLD THAT JENNIFER HALL
IS GOING TO BE SENDING US SOME
MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THIS.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KNOW WHO WHO WORKED
WITH JENNIFER HALL ON THIS, BUT
I KNOW THAT A NUMBER OF STAFF
MEMBERS DID MEET AND THAT THE
RESOLUTION IS MUCH IMPROVED
FROM WHAT WAS ORIGINALLY
PROPOSED.
AND SO AGAIN, THANK YOU TO
STAFF, SIR.
I&apos;D LIKE TO ASK DID ANY OF THE
DID ANY OF THE SPONSORS OF THIS
RESOLUTION WORK DIRECTLY WITH
MISS COUNTERPROTESTS
?
I SPOKE WITH HER ABOUT IT.
I, I, I I AGREE WITH COUNCILMAN
LARRY THAT THAT THIS IS A
COMPLICATED PROBLEM THAT
REQUIRES A LOT OF SOLUTIONS AND
I I REALLY DO APPRECIATE THE
ENTHUSIASM AND AND WORK THAT&apos;S
GONE INTO THIS.
BUT THERE&apos;S A REASON AS A AS A
CITY WHY
WE HAVEN&apos;T TAKEN THESE
ACTIONS SO FAR BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT
REALLY IN LINE WITH WITH OUR
EXISTING POLICIES ABOUT WHAT WE
WHAT WE THINK ABOUT AFFORDABLE
AND HOW TO BEST APPROACH
HOMEOWNERSHIP.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THERE ARE PEOPLE IN
THE COMMUNITY THAT DO THIS MUCH
BETTER THAN A CITY AND I I
STILL HAVE CONCERNS AFTER
SPEAKING WITH SOME FOLKS IN THE
ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE ABOUT ABOUT
WHAT IT MEANS FOR US TO BE
PROMOTING THIS TYPE OF APPROACH
TO HOUSING THERE.
ANYONE ELSE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
PAY COULD WE HAVE A ROLL CALL
VOTE STARTING WITH COUNCILMAN
OR JUST PLEASE COUNCIL MEMBER?
YES.
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD.
YES, COUNCILMAN.
NO, THAT&apos;S MY GRAND NO NO DENHA
ABSENT MAYOR TAYLOR ABSENT
COUNCILMAN IHR YES.
COUNCILMAN YES.
COUNCILMAN BRIGGS ABSENT
COUNCILMAN ALLAWAY YES.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILMAN HAYNER YES.
THE MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; IS THE BODY IN NEED OF A
BREAKER?
CAN YOU PUSH THROUGH THE LAST
COUPLE PUSH THROUGH OK DO YOU
SEE THREE RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT
OF MICHIGAN HOUSE BILL FIVE
NINE THREE ONE MOVED BY
COUNCILMAN NELSON SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR HAYNER COUNCILMAN
NELSON, THANK YOU.
THIS IS THE SECOND TIME THAT A
RESOLUTION ON THIS TOPIC HAS
BEEN ON OUR AGENDA.
I NEED TO EXPRESS THANKS TO OUR
STATE REPRESENTATIVE YUSOFF
RODDY FOR THE TIME THAT HE TOOK
IN VISITING THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITIES ISSUES AND
PRESENTING A REALLY EXCELLENT
REPORT AND SUMMARY ON WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENING AT THE STATE LEVEL IN
THE FIRST VERSION OF THIS
RESOLUTION THAT I MEANT TO LOOK
UP WHEN IT WAS FIRST ON OUR
AGENDA, WE WE WERE ALERTED TO
THE FACT THAT IT WAS SOMEWHAT
INCOMPLETE AND DIDN&apos;T DIDN&apos;T IT
WAS A LITTLE BIT TOO EARLY
BECAUSE REPRESENTATIVE ROBBIE
WAS WORKING ON A SPECIFIC
MEASURE THAT WE COULD ENDORSE.
SO I THINK I MEAN IT&apos;S IN
J-STAR THE EXPLANATION THAT
REFORMS THAT WERE MADE IN
TWENTY NINETEEN HAVE REALLY
MADE IT EXTREMELY DIFFICULT FOR
PEOPLE IN NEED OF LONG TERM
POST ACUTE INJURY CARE TO GET
TO GET THAT CARE AND SO I AGAIN
I WANT TO THANK STATE
REPRESENTATIVE USF FOR ALL
OF YOU FOR TAKING THE TIME TO
SPEAK TO THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITIES ISSUES AND
EDUCATING US ABOUT HIS EFFORTS
IN LANSING TO HELP FIX THIS
PROBLEM.
THANKS.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSE
MOTION CARRIES A DC FOUR HAS
BEEN REMOVED FROM OUR AGENDA
THAT TAKES US ALL THE WAY TO
YOU SHOULD HAVE SUPPORT.
YES
, I APOLOGIZE.
DO WE NEED TO APPROVE THE
CLERK&apos;S REPORT AT SOME POINT
WHICH I DON&apos;T SEE?
&gt;&gt; YES WE DO.
UM OK.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE CLERK&apos;S REPORT?
COUNCILOR HAYNER SECONDED BY
COUNCILMAN DESCH AND HE
DISCUSSION YES COUNCILMAN.
&gt;&gt; NO THANKS.
I KNOW IT&apos;S A NEUTRAL BUT I
JUST WANTED TO POINT FOLKS ASK
US A LOT OF TIME SO WHERE CAN I
SEE THIS?
WHERE CAN I SEE THAT A LOT
OF TIMES THESE THINGS ARE IN
THE CLERK&apos;S REPORT.
RIGHT.
AND SO THAT IS BRING THE FOLKS
UP THERE WHAT AREA THE
ATTENTION OF E3 WHICH OUTLINES
THE SIXTY FIVE POINT FOUR
COMBINED ACRES THAT ARE GOING
TO BE COMING TO THIS BODY FOR A
REZONING REQUEST AND POTENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT AND IT&apos;S ALL IN THE
ATTACHMENTS TO E3.
IT&apos;S QUITE CLEAR WHAT&apos;S RIGHT
UP THERE.
SO I JUST WANT TO POINT THAT
OUT TO FOLKS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD HAVE BEEN ASKING
ABOUT THAT IS OFTEN THERE ARE
MANY INTERESTING THINGS IN THE
CLERKS REPORT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION?
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR.
ALL RIGHT.
OPPOSE CLERKS REPORT IS
APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE ANY SESSION OR
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY?
NO, WE DON&apos;T.
THANK YOU.
OK, THANK YOU.
OK WE NOW COME TO OUR FINAL
PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
PUBLIC COMMENT, GENERAL TIME IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC AND COMMUNITY TO
SPEAK TO THE COUNCIL ABOUT
WHATEVER THEY WISH TO DO SO IF
YOU WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
WHEN YOU ARE AT HOME, PLEASE
FEEL FREE TO CALL THE NUMBER ON
YOUR SCREEN AND ENTER MEETING
ID NINE FOUR TWO ONE TWO SEVEN
THREE TWO ONE FOUR EIGHT
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK
AND IF YOU NEED ANY ASSISTANCE
WE WILL BE PLEASED TO HELP YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE IN CHAMBERS WHO
WOULD LIKE TO PARTICIPATE IN
PUBLIC COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; PLEASE COME FORWARD TO
INVITE ANY COUNCIL MEMBER WHO
MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SIT THROUGH
MY WORDS TO JUST GO AHEAD AND
USE THE GREEN ROOM.
NOW I MAY BE CRITICIZING ANY
ONE OF YOU UH NO SPOILERS
COUNCIL MEMBER IN MALAWI.
I AM GLAD THAT YOU ARE HEALTHY
AND RECOVERED.
WELL, UM I HAD COVID MYSELF
AFTER CHRISTMAS AFTER SPENDING
TIME WITH MY FAMILY AND I DON&apos;T
WISH ANYONE TO TO SUFFER FROM
THAT.
UM, I THE THE PREVIA COUPLE
MEETINGS AGO UM SOME COMMENTS
YOU MADE ABOUT THE R.P.M. MONEY
WAS THAT UM WE WERE LIKE
ROBBING FUTURE GENERATIONS
BECAUSE THE NATIONAL DEFICIT IS
REALLY HIGH.
&gt;&gt; UM I LATER FOUND OUT THAT
YOU HAD NO PROBLEM TAKING
ALMOST A QUARTER OF A MILLION
DOLLARS FOR YOUR BUSINESS WHICH
WAS FORGIVEN SO YOU DIDN&apos;T HAVE
TO PAY IT BACK.
I&apos;M HAPPY THAT YOU WERE ABLE TO
PAY YOUR EMPLOYEES WITH THAT
MONEY BUT THAT MONEY WAS GIVEN
TO YOU LIKE YOUR OTHER
EMPLOYER.
YOU STILL WOULD HAVE BEEN
RESPONSIVE OVERPLANT PAYING
YOUR EMPLOYEES.
SO I DON&apos;T SEE HOW YOU CAN DRAG
MONEY GIVEN TO OUR COMMUNITY
FOR COVID RELIEF HOW IT&apos;S
IMPACTED THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY
AND UH, YOU&apos;RE ABLE TO TAKE
THAT MONEY WITHOUT BLINKING.
SO UM THAT&apos;S ALL I WANT TO SAY
ABOUT THAT.
BUT I WANT TO THANK, UH,
CANDIDATE AYESHA GHAZI EDWYN
FOR PUTTING OUT A PUBLIC
STATEMENT FOR A MAY DAY.
UM, IF ANYONE UP HERE OR ANY
OTHER CANDIDATE PUT ANYTHING
OUT FOR THAT PURPOSE I&apos;M SORRY
I MISSED IT.
UM, I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO
RECOGNIZE THAT PRESIDENT BIDEN
MET WITH LABOR LEADERS HERE.
THERE IS SOMEBODY AT THE HANAH.
HER NAME IS HANNUM AT THE MAIN
STREET STARBUCKS THAT WAS FIRED
FROM HER JOB FOR UNIONIZING.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THEY WOULD
APPRECIATE GOVERNMENT LEADERS
REACHING OUT TO THEM AS WELL.
BUT THERE ARE PEOPLE RIGHT HERE
IN OUR COMMUNITY WITH THESE
ISSUES.
THE NEXT THING I WAS GOING TO
TALK ABOUT LOOKS LIKE I HAVE NO
TOWN TIME BUT I&apos;M FACING A
POTENTIAL DISCRIMINATION
LAWSUIT WITH MY LANDLORD THAT
THE LAW THE ANN ARBOR HAS MAY
NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT ME FOR
AND YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
ENFORCE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE IF YOU&apos;RE CALLING IN
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU
WISH TO SPEAK YOU&apos;LL BE
IDENTIFIED BY THE FOR THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER.
&gt;&gt; ADAM GOODMAN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; UH, HI AGAIN.
UM, I WANTED TO THANK ALL
OF YOU ON COUNCIL FOR YOUR
ADVOCACY IN THE FORM OF I THINK
IT WAS DC THREE FOR FIXING OR
AT LEAST ATTEMPTING TO MITIGATE
CONSEQUENCES OF THE DISASTROUS
NO NO FAULT INSURANCE QUOTE
REFORM THAT WAS PASSED IN
TWENTY NINETEEN.
I&apos;M ACTUALLY GOING TO READ SOME
OF YOUR WHEREAS CLAUSES BECAUSE
I THINK THIS IS REALLY
IMPORTANT WHERE HE IS
REIMBURSEMENT FOR POST
REHABILITATION CARE, IN-HOME
HEALTH CARE, TRANSPORTATION
OTHER CRUCIAL SERVICES THAT DO
NOT HAVE MEDICARE BILLING CODES
WERE CAPPED AT FIFTY FIVE
PERCENT OF WHAT PROVIDERS WERE
CHARGING FOR THOSE SERVICES ON
JANUARY 1ST, 2019 WHEREAS AS A
RESULT MORE THAN EIGHTEEN
THOUSAND MICHIGAN RESIDENTS
WITH SEVERE BRAIN SPINAL CORD
AND OTHER CATASTROPHIC INJURIES
INCLUDING MANY THOUSANDS IN NOT
COUNTY HAVE FOUND IT IMPOSSIBLE
TO OBTAIN ALL NECESSARY CARE
THAT THEY NEED FOR BASIC
SURVIVAL.
PEOPLE HAVE ALREADY DIED
BECAUSE OF BECAUSE OF THIS
REFORM AND MORE AND MORE WILL
AND AND EVEN THOSE WHO WHO HAVE
NOT SUFFERED THAT FATE ARE
SEEING THEIR QUALITY OF LIFE
REDUCED TO YOU KNOW, COMPLETELY
TERRIBLE SITUATION.
I BELIEVE THIS BUT SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED ONE OF THE BIGGEST
SCANDALS OF THE LAST SEVERAL
YEARS IN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN
.
THERE IS CURRENTLY A SHORT RUN
PODCAST&apos;S ON MICHIGAN RADIO
CALLED A COLLISION COURSE THAT
I WOULD ENCOURAGE EVERYONE
LISTENING TO THIS TO GO SEEK
OUT AND LISTEN TO IT&apos;S GIVING
GREAT COVERAGE TO THIS ISSUE
AND FINALLY IS AS A RESULT
OF THESE THIS POLICY CHANGE,
YOU KNOW, MANY OF THOSE OF US
IN MICHIGAN WHO OWN CARS ARE
CURRENTLY RECEIVING FOUR DOLLAR
CHECKS THROUGH THE STATE.
I CONSIDER THAT CHECK THAT I
GOT THIS WEEK TO BE BLOOD MONEY
AND I HAVE NO INTENTION
OF KEEPING I WILL BE DONATING
IT TO AN ORGANIZATION THAT&apos;S
FIGHTING FOR THE VICTIMS
OF THIS DISASTROUS REFORM.
AND FOR THOSE OF YOU THAT CAN
AFFORD TO PART WITH THE MONEY,
I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU TO DO THE
SAME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; MAYOR PRO TEM.
I DON&apos;T SEE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP AT THIS
TIME.
&gt;&gt; OK, I&apos;M SEEING NO ONE ELSE.
PUBLIC COMMENT IS CLOSED.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD?
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO&apos;S
BEEN USING THE AID TO FIX IT
APPLICATION PLEASE CONTINUE TO
USE THAT IF YOU ARE REPORTING A
DANGEROUS SITUATION SUCH AS A
MANHOLE COVER THAT FLIPPING OUT
OF ITS FRAME PUT IT IN A TO FIX
IT BUT ALSO CALLED THE CITY AND
MAKE SURE YOU TALK TO A HUMAN
BECAUSE TO FIX IT IS NOT
NECESSARILY WELL ACKNOWLEDGED
IMMEDIATELY.
IT&apos;S NOT NECESSARILY WORKED ON
THAT DAY.
SO IF IT IS A DANGEROUS
SITUATION DOCUMENTED WE NEED TO
FIX IT AND THEN CONTACT SOMEONE
AT THE CITY OR YOUR COUNCIL
MEMBER.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, SIR.
ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES
COUNCILMAN HERE?
YEAH, THANKS.
SO WE HAD SOME PUBLIC HEARINGS
TONIGHT THAT WEREN&apos;T ATTENDED
AT ALL AND IT HAPPENS A LOT.
FOLKS AREN&apos;T REALLY SURE WHAT&apos;S
GOING ON UNTIL THEY TRY AND
INTERACT WITH CITY IN SOME WAY
AND THEY SOMETIMES THEY FIND A
NEGATIVE INTERACTION LIKE THIS
LETTER WE GOT FROM MR. EWING
ABOUT THE REQUIREMENTS AND
EVERYTHING WE DON&apos;T ONLINE AND
ONE OF THE PUBLIC HEARINGS WAS
ABOUT A CHANGE THAT WE&apos;RE GOING
TO MAKE NEXT WEEK TO FEZZAN AND
BUILDING AND SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION AREA AND WE HAVE
A NEW SYSTEM IN PLACE TO
REPLACE THIS E TRACK AND IT&apos;S A
AND WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE USING THE
SYSTEM FOR ANY KIND OF CHANGE
YOU HAVE TO MAKE TO A PROPERTY
.
A LOT OF RENTAL MANAGERS WILL
HAVE TO DO IT TO SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE THEIR INSPECTIONS AND
AND TRADES TO COME IN AND MAKE
CHANGES AND SO ON AND WE&apos;RE
GOING TO CHARGE PEOPLE 125
BUCKS IF THEY WANT TO TURN IN A
PAPER COPY.
AND SO THE IDEA OF HAVING IT
IT&apos;S SOMEWHAT LIKE ASKING THE
RESIDENT TO DO OUR WORK FOR US
AND IF THEY DON&apos;T WANT TO DO
OUR WORK FOR US BY THE ERROR,
THEY&apos;RE UNABLE TO DO OUR WORK
FOR US BY NOT BEING COMPUTER
SAVVY AS AN EXAMPLE.
THEN WE&apos;RE GOING TO CHARGE ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE BUCKS WHEN
THEY COULD SURELY PICK UP A PEN
AND FILL OUT AN APPLICATION AND
HAND IT AT THE DESK.
BUT WE&apos;RE GOING TO STOP
ACCEPTING THOSE KINDS OF THINGS
AND I DOUBT THAT THERE WILL BE
A COMMENSURATE REDUCTION IN
STAFF FOR THE REDUCED WORKLOAD
THAT STAFF HAS BY MAKING
EVERYONE FILL IN THINGS
ELECTRONICALLY FOR US.
AND SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE
THINGS IT&apos;S UNFORTUNATE THERE
WAS NO ONE TO COMMENT ON THAT
BECAUSE I THINK I THINK MR.
EWING PREEMPTED THAT WITH THIS
LETTER THAT HE PUT IN OUR
MAILBOXES HERE OF APRIL 14TH.
SO I JUST WANT TO POINT THAT
OUT WHEN IT COMES UP TO THE
BUDGET, THERE&apos;S A LOT OF THINGS
IN THERE IS FEES GOING UP AND
NOT ONLY DO THEY GO UP BUT THEY
GO UP IN SOME WAYS AND THEY ARE
ADDED IN OTHER UNEXPECTED WAYS.
SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO REALLY
DIG THROUGH THIS BUDGET.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK COUNCILMAN
MOLLY?
THANK YOU.
UM UH, I DO APPRECIATE THOSE
LAST COMMENTS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
ARE BEING LEFT BEHIND AS YOU
JUST DESCRIBED AND IF YOU DON&apos;T
HAVE THE MEANS OR THE KNOW HOW
YOU MIGHT JUST BE ONE YOURSELF
.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT HELPS
EVERYBODY IN THE END.
UM, I WILL SAY THERE&apos;S JUST
BEEN SOME COMMENTS MADE AT THE
TABLE HERE TONIGHT WHICH I JUST
WANT TO SOMEWHAT CLARIFY IF I
COULD OR ASK QUESTIONS THEREOF
RUNNING AS A COUNCIL MEMBER
YOU&apos;RE JUST A WARD WHICH IS ONE
FIFTH OF THE CITY, SOMETHING
LIKE PROPP IS A CITYWIDE
INITIATIVE AND SO FOR SOMETHING
LIKE PREPARE TO GET A LOT MORE
VOTES THAN A COUNCIL MEMBER IS
NOT SURPRISING IF YOU GOT MORE
VOTES THAN IF YOU RUN FOR
MAYOR, THEN THAT&apos;S SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
SO JUST KNOWING THE DIFFERENCE
THERE I THINK IS IMPORTANT.
&gt;&gt; ALSO THERE WAS AN INITIATIVE
MADE ABOUT THESE LIQUOR
LICENSES THAT CAME OUT.
I&apos;M NOT SURE THE COMMITTEE AND
STAFF CAME UP WITH A PLAN ON
HOW TO AWARD THOSE EIGHT LIQUOR
LICENSES AND TO REALLY GEAR
TOWARDS OSA AND SUSTAINABILITY
EFFORTS.
I DO THINK WE MISSED AN
OPPORTUNITY THERE TO GIVE THEM
TO BLACK OWNED BUSINESSES.
I THINK, UH, THE LIQUOR
LICENSES, UM, COULD HAVE BEEN
USED AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO HELP
UH, WITH PAST INJUSTICES AND
NOT JUST SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES.
SO I WOULD HAVE LIKED TO SEE
THOSE GO TO UH, MINORITIES.
I KNOW THE SHIP HAS SAILED ON
THAT ONE BUT AS WE GO FORWARD
MAYBE LOOKING AT WAYS WHERE WE
CAN EVEN OUT SOME OF THE
IMBALANCES THAT AND
MISTREATMENTS OF OF YESTERDAY
ALSO WHEN IT COMES TO THAT UM
SEE TO LATER WHAT ANYONE ELSE
HAS ACCOUNTS FOR SOME I&apos;M ON
THE COUNTY&apos;S COMMUNITY ACTION
BOARD AND THAT&apos;S THE IDENTITY
FOR THE COUNTY THAT WORKS ON
POVERTY POVERTY ALLEVIATION
SOLUTIONS.
THE I HAD MENTIONED THERE THE
COVID EMERGENCY RENTAL
ASSISTANCE APPLICATION PORTAL
EARLIER IN THE MEETING BUT I
JUST WANT TO GIVE THE DATE IT&apos;S
CLOSING IN JUNE SO IT&apos;S CLOSING
NEXT MONTH.
THERE HASN&apos;T BEEN AN EXACT DATE
THAT&apos;S BEEN DECIDED BUT THERE&apos;S
STILL LIMITED FUNDING AVAILABLE
THROUGH SEPTEMBER 2002 TO BUT
THE APPLICATION PORTAL ITSELF
CLOSES NEXT MONTH.
&gt;&gt; SO FOR FOLKS WHO YOU QUALIFY
IF YOU&apos;VE EXPERIENCED FINANCIAL
HARDSHIP DURING THE PANDEMIC,
YOU&apos;VE HAVE RENTAL ARREARS,
BACK RENT PAYMENTS OWED FROM
MARCH 13TH 2020 TO MARCH 30TH,
2022 AND YOU MEET INCOME
THRESHOLDS FOR YOUR HOUSEHOLD
SIZE.
THE COUNTY HAS BEEN ENCOURAGING
FOLKS TO APPLY FOR THIS EVEN IF
YOU AREN&apos;T SURE IF YOU QUALIFY
IF ONLY ONLY BECAUSE THERE ARE
WAYS TO NAVIGATE THIS THAT
MIGHT NOT BE AWARE OF AND THERE
ARE FOLKS TO HELP YOU WITH THAT
UM, I AM ALSO INVOLVED WITH A
REPRODUCTIVE FREEDOM FOR ALL
EFFORT HERE.
I THINK THIS WEEK HAS BEEN VERY
DIFFICULT FOR WOMEN AROUND THE
COUNTRY AND UNDERSTANDING WHAT
OUR OPTIONS ARE COLLECTIVELY TO
FOR OUR HEALTH AND OUR LIVES.
SO I&apos;VE BEEN INVITED TO
CO-CHAIR THIS EFFORT FOR THE
STATE.
I INVITE FOLKS TO GO TO MY
REPRO FREEDOM DOG FOR MORE
INFORMATION AS FOLKS AROUND
STATE COLLECT SIGNATURES FOR
PETITIONS SO THAT THE BALLOT
INITIATIVE CAN APPEAR ON OUR
STATE TO AMEND THE STATE
CONSTITUTION.
&gt;&gt; THANKS ANYONE ELSE JUST TO
ANSWER CONSERVATORY&apos;S ALWAYS
QUESTION THE SHIP HAS NOT
SETTLED LIQUOR LICENSES LIQUOR
COMMISSION IS MEETING TOMORROW
AT 9AM AND WE&apos;LL BE JUST
HELPING TO WORK THROUGH THE TEN
APPLICATIONS FOR THE EIGHT
LICENSES THROUGH IT I THINK
THROUGH THE PROFESSIONALISM
OF OUR OF OUR CLERKS OFFICES IS
A REALLY HOLISTIC PROCESS THAT
REFLECTS A LOT OF THE VALUES
THAT WE HOLD AS A CITY.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO HELPING
OUT A NUMBER OF LOCAL
BUSINESSES THROUGH THAT PROCESS
AND ANYONE ELSE COULD I HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY ACCOUNTS FOR OUR SECOND BY
COUNCILWOMAN LOUHI DISCUSSION
ON HER I WE STAND ADJOURNED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU EVERYONE.